American singer-songwriter


This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This article is an autobiography or has been extensively edited by the subject or by someone connected to the subject. It may need editing to conform to Wikipedia's neutral point of view policy. There may be relevant discussion on the talk page. (May 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Aaron Benward" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article may need to be rewritten to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards. You can help. The talk page may contain suggestions. (July 2023)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Aaron BenwardBirth nameAaron Jeoffrey BenwardBorn (1973-09-13) September 13, 1973 (age 51)GenresCountry, Christian musicOccupationSinger-songwriter,Years active2000–presentFormerly ofBlue County, Aaron JeoffreyMusical artist
Aaron Jeoffrey Benward (born September 13, 1973) is an American singer-songwriter.


Life and career[edit]
Benward is the son of Candice and Jeoffrey Benward and has two siblings, Sareece and Colin. In high school, he left his mark as an All-State football, basketball and soccer player and was named the U.S. Army Scholar/Athlete of the Year. After graduating, he decided to pursue a college degree before getting involved in music on a professional level. He attended college on a soccer scholarship studying music business at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee.
In 1991, he surprised his father Jeoffrey when he told his dad that he wanted to follow his steps in the music business. They went on to form a unique son/father duo called Aaron Jeoffrey that achieved great success in the CCM scene. They garnered 10 #1 Billboard CCM singles and sold over 1,000,000 copies on all three of their EMI released albums combined.
Benward met his wife, Kenda, in San Jose, California, and married in 1994. In the late 1990s, Benward decided to pursue a solo career. While recording his first solo album, Benward, his wife and children, were involved in a near fatal car accident. After recovering from his injuries, Benward was able to release his debut album titled Imagine, that had Billboard #1 single called "Captured" in 2000.[1]
Benward founded the country music duo Blue County with his friend Scott Reeves.[2] Blue County recorded one album for Curb Records, which included the top 10 single "Good Little Girls" and the Top 20 hit "That's Cool", which Aaron co-wrote. Blue County was also nominated three times for CMA/ACM Duo of the Year.  They participated as a featured artist in Conde Nast's/Chevrolet's Fashion Rocks campaign.
In 2023, Benward began producing a new Amazon Freevee docu-series, God. Family. Football.[3]

Other work[edit]


Year

Label

Album

Artist

Song

Lyrics

Music


Credited

With

Credited

With


2016
SM Entertainment
Press It
Taemin
"Soldier"
No
Taemin
Yes
Matthew Tishler, Felicia Barton

See also[edit]
Aaron Jeoffrey
Luke Benward
References[edit]


^ "Music". Christianitytoday.com. Retrieved September 3, 2017.

^ "Billboard". Nielsen Business Media, Inc. April 17, 2004. Retrieved September 3, 2017 – via Google Books.

^ Evans Price, Deborah (September 1, 2023). "Anticipated New Series is a Real-Life 'Friday Night Lights' — With A Whole Lot of Faith. Yahoo!/Woman's World. Retrieved September 9, 2023.


Authority control databases InternationalVIAFWorldCatNationalUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainz



