American musician (b. 1947)


Bernie LeadonLeadon in 1970Background informationBirth nameBernard Matthew Leadon, IIIBorn (1947-07-19) July 19, 1947 (age 77)Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S.GenresRockcountrycountry rockbluegrassOccupation(s)Musician, songwriterInstruments
Vocals
guitar
Years active1961–presentLabelsAsylum, Really Small EntertainmentFormerly ofEagles, the Flying Burrito Brothers, Hearts & Flowers, Scottsville Squirrel Barkers, Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Run C&W, Ever Call Ready, Maundy QuintetMusical artist
Bernard Matthew Leadon III (pronounced LEH-dun; born July 19, 1947)[1] is an American singer, musician, songwriter, and founding member of the Eagles, for which he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998. Prior to the Eagles, he was a member of three country rock bands: Hearts & Flowers, Dillard & Clark, and the Flying Burrito Brothers. He is a multi-instrumentalist (guitar, banjo, mandolin, steel guitar, dobro) coming from a bluegrass background. He introduced elements of this music to a mainstream audience during his tenure with the Eagles.
Leadon's music career since leaving the Eagles has been low-key, resulting in two solo albums (the first actually being a collaborative project with Michael Georgiades) with a gap of 27 years in between. Leadon has also appeared on many other artists' records as a session musician.


Early life and musical beginnings[edit]
In San Diego, California, Leadon met fellow musicians Ed Douglas and Larry Murray of the local bluegrass outfit the Scottsville Squirrel Barkers. The Barkers proved a breeding ground for future California country rock talent, including shy, 18-year-old mandolin player Chris Hillman, with whom Leadon maintained a lifelong friendship. Augmented by banjo player (and future Flying Burrito Brother) Kenny Wertz, the Squirrel Barkers eventually asked Leadon to join the group, upon Wertz's joining the Air Force in 1963.[citation needed]
He later met  future Eagles lead guitarist Don Felder, whose band, the Continentals, had just lost guitarist Stephen Stills. 
A call from ex-Squirrel Barker Larry Murray in 1967 to join his fledgling psychedelic country-folk group Hearts & Flowers brought Leadon to California, where he became involved with the burgeoning L.A. folk/country rock scene. Leadon recorded one album with the band, its second release, Of Horses, Kids, and Forgotten Women, for Capitol Records. The record was a local hit but failed to make much of a dent on the national album charts. Discouraged, the group disbanded the following year.[citation needed]

Dillard & Clark[edit]
By late 1968, Leadon had befriended bluegrass/banjo legend Doug Dillard, late of the Dillards. While staying with Dillard, informal jam sessions with songwriter and ex-Byrds member Gene Clark began to take shape, and morphed into what eventually became the country-rock band Dillard & Clark. In 1968, the group recorded The Fantastic Expedition of Dillard & Clark, featuring Leadon's backing vocals and multi-instrumental work. The album included several compositions co-written with Clark, most notably the future Eagles staple (and somewhat of a signature song for Leadon) from their debut album, "Train Leaves Here This Morning".

The Flying Burrito Brothers[edit]
Flying Burrito Brothers (Amsterdam, 1970). From left to right: Sneaky Pete Kleinow, Rick Roberts, Chris Hillman, Michael Clarke, Bernie Leadon
Leadon left Dillard & Clark in 1969, eventually reconnecting with ex-Squirrel Barker (and ex-Byrd) Chris Hillman, who asked him to join the Flying Burrito Brothers, a fledgling country-rock band that Hillman had formed a year earlier with fellow ex-Byrd Gram Parsons. Leadon recorded two albums with the group: Burrito Deluxe and the post-Parsons LP The Flying Burrito Bros.[citation needed] After the latter album's release in 1971, Leadon had tired of the band's lack of commercial success and decided to leave the band to pursue an opportunity to play with three musicians he had worked with while moonlighting in Linda Ronstadt's backing band that summer, forming the Eagles.

Eagles[edit]
Leadon was the last original member to join the Eagles,[citation needed] a band initially formed by guitarist/singer Glenn Frey, drummer/singer Don Henley, and former Poco bassist/singer Randy Meisner. Leadon is often credited with helping shape the band's early country-rock sound, bringing his strong sense of harmony as well as his country, bluegrass and acoustic sensibilities to the group. Instruments he played during his tenure in the band were electric guitar, B-Bender, acoustic guitar, banjo, mandolin, dobro and pedal steel guitar.
Upon the release of their debut album, Eagles, the group met with near instant success, due largely to the strength of their hit singles "Take It Easy", "Peaceful Easy Feeling" and "Witchy Woman" (co-written by Leadon and Henley), all of which highlighted Leadon's multi-instrumental talent and harmony vocals. Their follow-up, Desperado, was another strong country-rock venture highlighted by the classics "Tequila Sunrise" and the title track. Leadon had a prominent role on the album but it was met by surprisingly lukewarm reviews and lackluster sales. As a result, the band attempted to distance itself from the "country rock" label for their third album On the Border. In doing so, Leadon encouraged the group to recruit his old friend, guitarist Don Felder, to the band. The result was the guitar-heavy top 40 hit "Already Gone". The album also included "My Man", Leadon's touching tribute to his old bandmate and friend Gram Parsons, who had died of a drug overdose the year prior at Joshua Tree National Monument in southeastern California.
With the wild success of On the Border and its follow-up smash, One of These Nights, tension within the band grew with some sources saying Leadon grew increasingly frustrated by the band's direction away from his beloved country and bluegrass toward album-oriented stadium rock. He famously quit the band in 1975 by pouring a beer over Glenn Frey's head.[2] He later cited a need to get healthy and break the vicious cycle of touring, recording and heavy drug use that was rampant within the band.
Upon Leadon's departure, Asylum Records released Their Greatest Hits (1971–1975), which highlighted the band's Leadon years and went on to become the best-selling album in United States history, with sales in excess of 38 million units. He was replaced by former James Gang guitarist and singer Joe Walsh.
Although it has long been believed that he left because he was dissatisfied with the band moving into rock and roll, Leadon denies it and said in 2013, "That's an oversimplification, it implies that I had no interest in rock or blues or anything but country rock. That's just not the case. I didn't just play Fender Telecaster. I played a Gibson Les Paul and I enjoyed rock & roll. That's evident from the early albums."[3]

Later career[edit]
History of the Eagles tour, 2014. Leadon (second from left) joined the tour.
Upon leaving the Eagles, Leadon retreated from the limelight, only to resurface in 1977 with musician friend Michael Georgiades for the album, Natural Progressions (credited to "The Bernie Leadon-Michael Georgiades Band"), featuring Leadon and Georgiades on guitars and alternating lead vocals, along with Bryan Garofalo on bass, Dave Kemper on drums, and Steve Goldstein on keyboard.
In 1985, he recorded an album of bluegrass and gospel favorites under the name Ever Call Ready, featuring Chris Hillman and Al Perkins. He also had a short stint with the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band in the late 1980s.
In 1993, he became a member of Run C&W, a novelty group singing Motown hits "bluegrass style", recording two albums for MCA Records.
In 1998, Leadon reunited with the Eagles in New York City for the band's induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. All seven current and former Eagles members performed together on "Take It Easy" and "Hotel California".
In 2004, he released his second solo effort in 27 years (and his first under solely his name), Mirror.
Leadon toured with the Eagles from 2013 through 2015 during their History of the Eagles Tour[4][5] In 2015, Leadon appeared on producer Ethan Johns' third solo album, Silver Liner.
In February 2016, Leadon appeared at the Grammy Awards ceremony with Jackson Browne and the surviving Eagles members - Don Henley, Joe Walsh, and Timothy B. Schmit - performing "Take it Easy", in tribute to Glenn Frey who had died a month earlier.[6]

Personal life[edit]
For a few years in the mid-1970s, Leadon lived in Topanga Canyon, a bohemian enclave known for its musician residents. Leadon's house-plus-recording-studio had previously been owned by singer-songwriter Neil Young, and was the site of frequent parties.[7] Leadon lived with Patti Davis, the daughter of conservative California Governor Ronald Reagan, who was at that time campaigning for president and distancing himself from his daughter because Leadon and she were unmarried but living together. Leadon and Davis co-wrote the song "I Wish You Peace", which Leadon insisted the Eagles include on the album One of These Nights, against the wishes of his bandmates.[8][9]

Discography[edit]
Main article: Bernie Leadon discography
References[edit]


^ "Famous birthdays for July 19: Brian May, Anthony Edwards". United Press International. July 19, 2019. Archived from the original on July 19, 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2019. Musician Bernie Leadon in 1947 (age 72)

^ Eliot, Marc (2005). To the Limit: The Untold Story of the Eagles[permanent dead link], p. 131. Da Capo Press.

^ Greene, Andy (July 5, 2013). "Eagles Tour: Guitarist Bernie Leadon Will Reunite". Rolling Stone. Retrieved March 4, 2017.

^ Cohen, Howard (November 23, 2013). "Review: Eagles bring 40-year 'History' Tour and taste of California to Miami's AmericanAirlines Arena". Miami.com. Retrieved January 21, 2016.

^ Harrington, Jim (January 30, 2014). "Review: Eagles fly through history lesson". San Jose Mercury News. Retrieved January 21, 2016.

^ Rys, Dan (February 15, 2016). "Glenn Frey Tribute at the 2016 Grammys: Jackson Browne, Don Henley and Joe Walsh Perform 'Take It Easy'". Billboard. Retrieved February 20, 2016.

^ "Tonight's the Night to Purchase Neil Young's Former Topanga Retreat". New Haven Register. May 10, 2018.

^ Kelley, Kitty (2011). Nancy Reagan: The Unauthorized Biography. Simon and Schuster. p. 356. ISBN 9781451674767.

^ "The Problem of Being Patti". People.


Sources[edit]
Elliot, Marc (1998). To the Limit: The Untold Story of the Eagles. Little, Brown. ISBN 978-0-316-23370-5.
Einarson, John (2001). Desperados: The Roots of Country Rock. Cooper Square Press. ISBN 978-0-8154-1065-2.
Einarson, John (2005). Mr. Tambourine Man: The Life and Legacy of the Byrds' Gene Clark. Backbeat books. ISBN 0-87930-793-5.
Felder, Don with Holden, Wendy (2008). Heaven and Hell: My Life in the Eagles (1974-2001). Wiley. ISBN 978-0-470-28906-8.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Einarson, John with Hillman, Chris (2008). Hot Burritos: The True Story of The Flying Burrito Brothers. Jawbone Press. ISBN 978-1-906002-16-9.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Bernie Leadon.

Bernie Leadon Online
Bernie Leadon at AllMusic
Bernie Leadon discography at Discogs
The Complete Hearts and Flowers Liner Notes
The Scottsville Squirrel Barkers
Rock of Ages' Bernie Leadon Interview Archived September 12, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
Bernie Leadon's Official Website-Archived
vteEagles
Don Henley
Joe Walsh
Timothy B. Schmit
Deacon Frey
Vince Gill
Glenn Frey
Bernie Leadon
Randy Meisner
Don Felder
Studio albums
Eagles
Desperado
On the Border
One of These Nights
Hotel California
The Long Run
Long Road Out of Eden
Compilation
Their Greatest Hits (1971–1975)
Eagles Greatest Hits Volume 2
The Very Best of the Eagles
Selected Works: 1972–1999
The Very Best Of
Eagles
Live releases
Eagles Live
Hell Freezes Over
Farewell 1 Tour: Live from Melbourne
Live from the Forum MMXVIII
Singles
"Take It Easy"
"Witchy Woman"
"Peaceful Easy Feeling"
"Tequila Sunrise"
"Outlaw Man"
"Already Gone"
"James Dean"
"Best of My Love"
"One of These Nights"
"Lyin' Eyes"
"Take It to the Limit"
"New Kid in Town"
"Hotel California"
"Life in the Fast Lane"
"Please Come Home for Christmas"
"Heartache Tonight"
"The Long Run"
"I Can't Tell You Why"
"Seven Bridges Road"
"Get Over It"
"Love Will Keep Us Alive"
"Hole in the World"
"How Long"
"Busy Being Fabulous"
Other songs
"Desperado"
"Ol' '55"
"The Last Resort"
"In the City"
Tours
Long Road Out of Eden Tour
History of the Eagles Tour
Hotel California 2020 Tour
People
Irving Azoff
Jackson Browne
David Geffen
Glyn Johns
Linda Ronstadt
JD Souther
Bill Szymczyk
Jack Tempchin
Related
Discography
Poco
Flying Burrito Brothers
Common Thread: The Songs of the Eagles
History of the Eagles
Heaven and Hell: My Life in the Eagles (1974–2001)
Standin' on the Corner Park

 Category

vteThe Flying Burrito Brothers
Chris Hillman
Sneaky Pete Kleinow
Gram Parsons
Chris Ethridge
Michael Clarke
Bernie Leadon
Rick Roberts
Al Perkins
Byron Berline
Floyd "Gib" Guilbeau
Gene Parsons
Bobby Cochran
Skip Battin
Mickey McGee
John Beland
Brian Cadd
Flying Burrito Brothersstudio albums
The Gilded Palace of Sin (1969)
Burrito Deluxe (1970)
The Flying Burrito Bros (1971)
Flying Again (1975)
Airborne (1976)
Eye of a Hurricane (1994)
California Jukebox (1997)
Sons of the Golden West (1999)
Burrito Brothersstudio albums
Hearts on the Line (1981)
Sunset Sundown (1982)
Burrito Deluxestudio albums
Georgia Peach (2002)
The Whole Enchilada (2004)
Disciples of the Truth (2007)
Compilation albums
Close Up the Honky Tonks (1974)
Sleepless Nights (1976)
Hot Burritos! The Flying Burrito Brothers Anthology 1969–1972 (2000)
Live albums
Last of the Red Hot Burritos (1972)
Sin City (1976)
Live from Tokyo (1979)
Cabin Fever (1985)
Live from Europe (1986)
Gram Parsons Archives Vol.1: Live at the Avalon Ballroom 1969 (2007)
Singles
"Almost Saturday Night"
Related
The Byrds
The Desert Rose Band
The Scottsville Squirrel Barkers

vteNitty Gritty Dirt Band
Jeff Hanna
Ross Holmes
Jim Photoglo
Jackson Browne
Chris Darrow
Jimmy Ibbotson
Bernie Leadon
John McEuen
Studio albums
The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band
Ricochet
Rare Junk
Uncle Charlie & His Dog Teddy
All the Good Times
Stars & Stripes Forever
Symphonion Dream
The Dirt Band
An American Dream
Make a Little Magic
Jealousy
Let's Go
Plain Dirt Fashion
Partners, Brothers and Friends
Hold On
Workin' Band
The Rest of the Dream
Not Fade Away
Acoustic
The Christmas Album
Bang, Bang, Bang
Welcome to Woody Creek
Speed of Life
Collaboration albums
Will the Circle Be Unbroken
Will the Circle Be Unbroken: Volume Two
Will the Circle Be Unbroken, Volume III
Live albums
Alive
Live Two Five
Compilation albums
Dirt, Silver and Gold
Twenty Years of Dirt
More Great Dirt
Singles
"Mr. Bojangles"
"House at Pooh Corner"
"I Saw the Light"
"Jambalaya (On the Bayou)"
"The Battle of New Orleans"
"All I Have to Do Is Dream"
"An American Dream"
"Dance Little Jean"
"Long Hard Road (The Sharecropper's Dream)"
"I Love Only You"
"High Horse"
"Modern Day Romance"
"Home Again in My Heart"
"Partners, Brothers and Friends"
"Fire in the Sky"
"Baby's Got a Hold on Me"
"Fishin' in the Dark"
"Oh What a Love"
"Workin' Man (Nowhere to Go)"
"I've Been Lookin'"
"Down That Road Tonight"
"Turn of the Century"
"And So It Goes"
"When It's Gone"
"From Small Things (Big Things One Day Come)"
"I Fought the Law"
Other songs
"King Tut"
"Joe Knows How to Live"
"Bless the Broken Road"
Related articles
Discography
Members

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicNetherlandsArtistsMusicBrainz



