American frontierswoman
For other uses, see Calamity Jane (disambiguation).


Calamity Janec. 1880BornMartha Jane Canary[a](1852-05-01)May 1, 1852Princeton, Missouri, U.S.DiedAugust 1, 1903(1903-08-01) (aged 51)Terry, South Dakota, U.S.OccupationsExplorerarmy scoutpioneerstorytellersharpshooterperformerdance-hall girlalleged prostituteSpouses
Clinton Burk
William P Steers
Children2 or 4
Martha Jane Canary (May 1, 1852 – August 1, 1903), better known as Calamity Jane, was an American frontierswoman, sharpshooter, and storyteller.[2][3][4] In addition to many exploits, she was known for being an acquaintance of Wild Bill Hickok. Late in her life, she appeared in Buffalo Bill's Wild West show and at the 1901 Pan-American Exposition. She is said to have exhibited compassion to others, especially to the sick and needy. This facet of her character contrasted with her daredevil ways helped to make her a noted frontier figure.[5] She was also known for her habit of wearing men's attire.[6]


Early life[edit]
Marker east of Princeton indicating the most widely believed location of her birth. The site was later occupied by a Premium Standard Farms hog farm.
Much of the information about the early years of Calamity Jane's life comes from an autobiographical booklet that she dictated in 1896, written for publicity purposes. It was intended to help attract audiences to a tour she was about to begin, in which she appeared in dime museums around the United States. Some of the information in the pamphlet is exaggerated or even completely inaccurate.[7]
Calamity Jane was born on May 1, 1852, as Martha Jane Canary (or Cannary)[b] in Princeton, within Mercer County, Missouri. Her parents were listed in the 1860 United States census as living about 7 miles (11 km) northeast of Princeton in Ravanna. Her father Robert Wilson Canary had a gambling problem, and little is known about her mother Charlotte M. Canary. Jane was the eldest of six children, with two brothers and three sisters.
In 1865, the family moved by wagon train from Missouri to Virginia City, Montana. In 1866, Charlotte died of pneumonia along the way, in Blackfoot, Montana. After arriving in Virginia City in the spring of 1866, Robert took his six children to Salt Lake City, Utah. They arrived in the summer, and Robert supposedly started farming on 40 acres (16 ha) of land. The family had been in Salt Lake City for only a year when he died in 1867. At age 14, Martha Jane took charge of her five younger siblings, loaded their wagon, and took the family to Fort Bridger, Wyoming Territory, where they arrived in May 1868. From there, they traveled on the Union Pacific Railroad to Piedmont, Wyoming.
In Piedmont, Jane took whatever jobs she could find to provide for her large family. She worked as a dishwasher, cook, waitress, dance hall girl, nurse, and ox team driver.[10] Finally, in 1874, she claimed she found work as a scout[11] at Fort Russell. During this time, she also reportedly began her occasional employment as a prostitute at the Fort Laramie Three-Mile Hog Ranch.[10] She moved to a rougher, mostly outdoor and adventurous life on the Great Plains.

Acquiring the nickname[edit]
1885 photos of Calamity Jane[12]
Jane was involved in several campaigns in the long-running military conflicts with Native Americans. Her claim was that:

It was during this campaign [in 1872–73] that I was christened Calamity Jane. It was on Goose Creek, Wyoming where the town of Sheridan is now located. Capt. Egan was in command of the Post. We were ordered out to quell an uprising of the Indians, and were out for several days, had numerous skirmishes during which six of the soldiers were killed and several severely wounded. When on returning to the Post we were ambushed about a mile and a half from our destination. When fired upon, Capt. Egan was shot. I was riding in advance and on hearing the firing turned in my saddle and saw the Captain reeling in his saddle as though about to fall. I turned my horse and galloped back with all haste to his side and got there in time to catch him as he was falling. I lifted him onto my horse in front of me and succeeded in getting him safely to the Fort. Capt. Egan, on recovering, laughingly said: "I name you Calamity Jane, the heroine of the plains." I have borne that name up to the present time.[13]
"Captain Jack" Crawford served under Generals Wesley Merritt and George Crook. According to the Montana Anaconda Standard of April 19, 1904, he stated that Calamity Jane "never saw service in any capacity under either General Crook or General Miles. She never saw a lynching and never was in an Indian fight. She was simply a notorious character, dissolute and devilish, but possessed a generous streak which made her popular."
A popular belief is that she instead acquired the nickname as a result of her warnings to men that to offend her was to "court calamity". It is possible that "Jane" was not part of her name until the nickname was coined for her.[8] It is certain, however, that she was known by that nickname by 1876, because the arrival of the Hickok wagon train was reported in Deadwood's newspaper, the Black Hills Pioneer, on July 15, 1876, with the headline: "Calamity Jane has arrived!"[14]
Another account in her autobiographical pamphlet is that her detachment was ordered to the Big Horn River under General Crook in 1875. She swam the Platte River and travelled 90 miles (140 km) at top speed while wet and cold in order to deliver important dispatches. She became ill afterwards and spent a few weeks recuperating. She then rode to Fort Laramie in Wyoming and joined a wagon train headed north in July 1876. The second part of her story is verified. She was at Fort Laramie in July 1876, and she did join a wagon train that included Wild Bill Hickok. That was where she first met Hickok, contrary to her later claims, and that was how she happened to come to Deadwood.[15]

Deadwood and Wild Bill Hickok[edit]
Calamity Jane accompanied the Newton–Jenney Party into Rapid City in 1875, along with California Joe and Valentine McGillycuddy. In 1876, Calamity Jane settled in the area of Deadwood, South Dakota, in the Black Hills. There she became friends with Dora DuFran, the Black Hills' leading madam, and was occasionally employed by her.

McCormick claim[edit]
On September 6, 1941, the U.S. Department of Public Welfare granted old age assistance to a Jean Hickok Burkhardt McCormick who claimed to be the legal offspring of Martha Jane Canary and James Butler Hickok. She presented evidence that Calamity Jane and Wild Bill had married at Benson's Landing, Montana Territory (now Livingston, Montana) on September 25, 1873. The documentation was written in a Bible and presumably signed by two ministers and numerous witnesses. However, McCormick's claim has been vigorously challenged because of a variety of discrepancies.[9][16]
McCormick later published a book with letters purported to be from Calamity Jane to her daughter. In them, Calamity Jane says she had been married to Hickok and that Hickok was the father of McCormick, who was born September 25, 1873, and was placed for adoption with a Captain Jim O'Neil and his wife.[17] During this period, Calamity Jane was allegedly working as a scout for the army,[18] and at the time of Hickok's death, he had recently married Agnes Lake Thatcher.[citation needed][19]
Calamity Jane does seem to have had two or four daughters, although the father's identity is unknown. In the late 1880s, Jane returned to Deadwood with a child who she said was her daughter. At Jane's request, a benefit was held in one of the theaters to raise money for her daughter's education in St. Martin's Academy at Sturgis, South Dakota, a nearby Catholic boarding school. The benefit raised a large sum; Jane got drunk and spent a considerable portion of the money that same night and left with the child the next day.
Estelline Bennett was living in Deadwood at that time and had spoken briefly with Jane a few days before the benefit. She thought that Jane honestly wanted her daughter to have an education and that the drunken binge was just an example of her inability to curb her impulses and carry through long-range plans (which Bennett saw as typical of Jane's class). Bennett later heard that Jane's daughter did "get an education, and grew up and married well".[20]

After the death of Wild Bill Hickok[edit]
Jane also claimed that, following Hickok's death, she went after his murderer Jack McCall with a meat cleaver because she had left her guns at her residence. Following McCall's execution for the crime, Jane continued living in the Deadwood area for some time, and at one point, she helped save numerous passengers in an overland stagecoach by diverting several Plains Indians who were in pursuit of the vehicle. Stagecoach driver John Slaughter was killed during the pursuit, and Jane took over the reins and drove the stage on to its destination at Deadwood.[21]
In late 1876 or 1878, Jane nursed the victims of a smallpox epidemic in the Deadwood area.[22]

Final years[edit]
Calamity Jane shares a drink with Teddy Blue Abbott, c. 1887.Calamity Jane at Wild Bill Hickok's Gravesite, Deadwood, Dakota Territory, 1903
In 1881, Jane bought a ranch west of Miles City, Montana, along the Yellowstone River, where she kept an inn. According to one version of her life, she later married Clinton Burke from Texas and moved to Boulder, where she once again made an attempt in the inn business.
In 1893, Calamity Jane started to appear in Buffalo Bill's Wild West show as a storyteller. She also participated in the 1901 Pan-American Exposition.
Her addiction to liquor was evident even in her younger years. For example, on June 10, 1876, she rented a horse and buggy in Cheyenne for a one-mile joy ride to Fort Russell and back, but she was so drunk that she passed right by her destination without noticing it and finally ended up about 90 miles (140 km) away at Fort Laramie.[23]

Death[edit]
Jane returned to the Black Hills in the spring (April/May) of 1903, where brothel owner Madame Dora DuFran was still running her business. For the next few months, Jane earned her keep by cooking and doing the laundry for Dora's girls in Belle Fourche. In late July, Jane traveled by ore train to Terry, South Dakota, a small mining village near Deadwood. It was reported that she had been drinking heavily while on board the train and had fallen ill. The conductor, S. G. Tillett, carried her off the train,[24] a bartender secured a room for her at the Calloway Hotel, and a physician was summoned. Jane's condition deteriorated quickly, and she died at the hotel on Saturday, August 1, 1903, from inflammation of the bowels and pneumonia.[9]
A bundle of unsent letters to her daughter were allegedly found among Jane's few belongings. Composer Libby Larsen set some of these letters to music in an art song cycle called Songs from Letters (1989). The letters were made public by Jean McCormick as part of her claim to be the daughter of Jane and Hickok, but their authenticity is not accepted by some, largely because  there is ample evidence that Jane was functionally illiterate.[16]
Calamity Jane was buried at Mount Moriah Cemetery, South Dakota, next to Bill Hickok.[25] Four of the men who planned her funeral[26] later stated that Hickok had "absolutely no use" for Jane while he was alive, so they decided to play a posthumous joke on him by burying her by his side.[27] Another account states: "in compliance with Jane's dying requests, the Society of Black Hills Pioneers took charge of her funeral and burial in Mount Moriah Cemetery beside Wild Bill. Not just old friends, but the morbidly curious and many who would not have acknowledged Calamity Jane when she was alive, overflowed the First Methodist Church for the funeral services on August 4 and followed the hearse up the steep winding road to Deadwood's boot hill".[9]

In popular culture[edit]




The Life and Adventures of Calamity Jane

Full audiobook (13 minutes). Text
Problems playing this file? See media help.

Films[edit]
The Plainsman is a 1936 film starring Gary Cooper as Bill Hickok and Jean Arthur as Jane. In Young Bill Hickok with Roy Rogers (1940), she was played by Sally Payne. She was played by Marin Sais in the 1940 serial Deadwood Dick, by Frances Farmer in the 1941 Western The Badlands of Dakota, and by Jane Russell in the 1948 Bob Hope comedy The Paleface. In 1949's Calamity Jane and Sam Bass, Jane was played by Yvonne De Carlo and Sam Bass by Howard Duff; both characters were heavily fictionalized.
Calamity Jane is a musical Western film starring Doris Day and Howard Keel as Wild Bill Hickok. The plot of the film is almost entirely fictional and bears little resemblance to the actual lives of the protagonists. It won Best Original Song at the Oscars for "Secret Love", by Sammy Fain and Paul Francis Webster.
In 1961, in a Season 4 episode of Have Gun, Will Travel (The Cure), she is portrayed by Norma Crane. Among the liberties taken with the truth was changing her surname to Conroy.
In the 1984 TV film Calamity Jane, she was played by Jane Alexander. 
In the 1995 Disney movie Tall Tale: The Unbelievable Adventures of Pecos Bill, she was portrayed by Catherine O'Hara as a mythic figure, acquainted with Paul Bunyan and John Henry, and as Pecos Bill's jilted sweetheart and as a sheriff or deputy of some sort.
In the 1995 film Wild Bill, Calamity Jane was portrayed by Ellen Barkin. 
In 1995 in Buffalo Girls, she was played by Anjelica Huston. 
In the 2009 French movie Lucky Luke, Jane was portrayed by Sylvie Testud.
Calamity Jane: Wild West Legend, a docu-fiction directed by Gregory Monro and released in 2014, inspired French writer and editor Rémi Chayé to create the feature-length animated movie, Calamity, a Childhood of Martha Jane Cannary. The film was released in France in 2020 and won the Annecy International Animated Film Festival's Cristal Award for Best Feature in June 2020.[28] Its American premiere took place on the opening night of the 2021 virtual Animation First Festival presented by French Institute Alliance Française.
Robin Weigert played Jane for three seasons in the series Deadwood and in the HBO movie Deadwood: The Movie, released in May 2019.
Jane in the 2024 film Calamity Jane was played by Emily Bett Rickards.

Documentaries[edit]
Calamity Jane: Wild West Legend directed by Gregory Monro in 2014

Games[edit]
She appears as a side character in the computer RPG Worlds of Ultima: Martian Dreams (1991). In the KingsIsle Entertainment game Pirate101, Calamity Jane is one of the Magnificent 7.[29] A character named after Calamity Jane appeared as a side character in the videogame Wild Arms (1996).
In the RPG Fallout 3, the Lone Wanderer references Calamity Jane in a dialogue option when first talking to Megaton sheriff and mayor, Lucas Simms. A character named Calamity Janet appears in the card board game BANG![30] Calamity: The Natural World, a line of educational games made in the 1990s for the PlayStation by Lightspan Adventures, stars Calamity Jane. In the first-person shooter Hunt: Showdown, she died during a Wild West show from a mysterious accident. Also, there is a legendary rifle named after her.
She appears in the mobile game Fate/Grand Order as a limited Archer class servant during the Saber Wars 2 event.[31]

Plays[edit]
Calamity Jane (A Musical Western), an adaptation of the 1953 Doris Day film with additional songs, premiered in May 1961.
Productions:[32] Calamity Jane: The Play by Catherine Ann Jones:[33] Empire State Theatre, Albany, New York; Promenade Theatre, New York, NY, with Estelle Parsons; Santa Paula Theatre, Santa Paula, CA; Wimberley Players, Wimberley, Texas; Plaza Playhouse, Carpenteria, CA. Calamity Jane the Musical by Catherine Ann Jones: South Jersey Regional Theatre, Somers Point, New Jersey; Ojai Arts Theatre, Ojai, CA; Camino Real Theatre, San Juan Capistrano, CA; One Eyed Man Productions, a touring production (2017–18), Various Cities, Australia, with Virginia Gay.

Literature[edit]
Books[edit]
Calamity Jane was an important fictional character in the Deadwood Dick series of dime novels, beginning with the first appearance of Deadwood Dick in Beadle's Half-Dime Library issue #1 in 1877. This series, written by Edward Wheeler, established her with a reputation as a Wild West heroine and probably did more to enhance her familiarity to the public than any of her real life exploits. There is no evidence that she was consulted by Wheeler or approved the Deadwood Dick stories, so the character in the stories was entirely fictitious—as were the events described—but the fictional adventures were muddled in the public mind with the real Jane.[citation needed] Calamity Jane was the title character in a serial published in New York's Street & Smith's Weekly (1882) under the title, Calamity Jane: Queen of the Plains, by the author "Reckless Ralph".
The science fiction writer A. Bertram Chandler included a character named Calamity Jane Arlen in his far future novels set on the frontier Rim Worlds, a space analogue of the Old West.[34]
A fictitious fight between Calamity Jane and an impostor is depicted in Thomas Berger's novel Little Big Man (1964). Jane is the central character in Larry McMurtry's book Buffalo Girls: A Novel (1990). Jane is a central character in Pete Dexter's novel Deadwood (1986).
J. T. Edson features Calamity Jane as a character in a number of his books, as a stand-alone character (in Cold Deck, Hot Lead, Calamity Spells Trouble, Trouble Trail, The Bull Whip Breed, The Cow Thieves, The Whip And The War Lance and The Big Hunt) and as a romantic interest of the character Mark Counter (in The Wildcats, The Bad Bunch, Guns In The Night and others).
An alternative universe version of Jane is a character in the short story "Deadwood" in Corsets and Clockwork (2011), a steampunk anthology. The story also features Jesse James. In Calamity's Wake (2013), a novel of historical fiction written by Natalee Caple, Martha, or Calamity Jane, is one of two main narrators; the other is Jane's daughter Miette.[35] Calamity Jane, légende de l'Ouest, written by Gregory Monro (2010), is the only French biography to this day. Calamity Jane appears in Michael Crichton's novel Dragon Teeth (2017).

Comics[edit]
Calamity Jane figures as a main character in an album of the same name of the Franco-Belgian comics series Lucky Luke, created by Morris and René Goscinny. Also, she features in the album Ghosthunt, created by Morris and Lo Hartog van Banda.
Graphic novel Calamity Jane—The Calamitous Life of Martha Jane Cannary, 1852–1903 (IDW Publishing, 2017) by Christian Perrissin [fr] and Matthieu Blanchin [fr] is a biography of Calamity Jane, mostly based on Calamity Jane's Letters to Her Daughter.

Music[edit]
Calamity Jane and Wild Bill Hickok are featured in the song "Deadwood Mountain" by the country duo Big & Rich. Some of her purported letters were set to music in an art-song cycle by 20th-century composer Libby Larsen, titled "Songs from Letters". Soprano Dora Ohrenstein commissioned five pieces compiled under the title Urban Diva, the second piece, Ben Johnston's Calamity Jane to Her Daughter is a theatrical setting of selected letters. "Calamity Jane" is a song by Grant-Lee Phillips on "Virginia Creeper" (2004). "Calamity Jane" is a song by Kiya Heartwood on Wishing Chair's Underdog CD (2005).
Alain Bashung, Chloé Mons, Rodolphe Burger released the album La Ballade de Calamity Jane (2006) based on Jane's letters to her daughter. "Kalamity Jane" is a song by Czech rock band Kabát. "Calamity Jane" is a song by Chris Anderson on his album "The Crown" (2004). The 1953 movie Calamity Jane with Doris Day and Howard Keel features the song "My Secret Love", which won the 1954 Academy Award for "Best Music Original Song". Calamity Jane is mentioned in the 2016 song "The Lighter" by the French pop-rock band Superbus from the album "Sixtape". Calamity Jane is mentioned in the song "Two Characters in Search of a Country Song" by The Magnetic Fields.

Radio[edit]
Frontier Gentleman is a short-lived radio Western series originally broadcast on the CBS radio network.  In the episode "Aces & Eights" broadcast 12 October 1958, the main character encounters Calamity Jane while seeking information for a story on Wild Bill Hickok, and subsequently witnesses Hickok's murder.[36]

Television[edit]
The long-running series Biography featured Calamity Jane. The episode is available on the Biography website.
The name "Calamity" is given to the children's character played by Nancy Gilbert in the 1955–1956 television series Buffalo Bill, Jr., with Dick Jones as the fictitious Buffalo Bill, Jr. and Harry Cheshire as Judge Ben "Fair and Square" Wiley.
In the episode "Calamity" (December 13, 1959) of the series Colt .45, Dody Heath is cast as Calamity Jane and Joan Taylor as Dr. Ellen McGraw. In the story, series character Christopher Colt, played by Wayde Preston, hires Calamity Jane to drive the stagecoach containing Dr. McGraw and the vaccine needed for the smallpox outbreak in Deadwood. Colt is unsure if Calamity can handle the job because miners and Indians seek to steal the valuable medication.
In an episode of Bonanza, "Calamity Over the Comstock" (1963), Stefanie Powers plays Calamity Jane, who visits Virginia City along with Doc Holliday. In this primarily comedic episode, she is rescued by Little Joe, who at first thinks she is a male. She becomes infatuated with him, and he receives threats from Doc, who covets Jane for himself. At her urging (and threat), Doc demurs from facing down Joe, and Jane and Doc exit town. No official or unofficial documentation exists suggesting that Doc Holliday and Jane ever met during their lifetimes. It is highly unlikely that they met considering the geographical distances between them during their lives.
In an episode of the television show Death Valley Days, "A Calamity Named Jane", Fay Spain plays Calamity Jane as she joins Wild Bill Hickok's (Rhodes Reasons) show. Her uncouth behavior causes Bill to think he made a mistake, and when Bill tells her she should "act like a lady", he soon realizes he made a bigger mistake.
In the 1966 Batman series, one of the villains in season three was named "Calamity Jan" (played by Dina Merrill).
The television movie Calamity Jane (1984) featured her life story, including her alleged marriage to Wild Bill Hickok and the daughter she purportedly gave for adoption. Actress Jane Alexander portrayed Calamity and was nominated for an Emmy in 1985 for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Special. The show featured an early performance of Sara Gilbert as Calamity's daughter Jean at age 7.
Jane is the central character in Larry McMurtry's book Buffalo Girls: A Novel (1990), and in the 1995 TV adaptation of the same name, Jane is played by Anjelica Huston, with Sam Elliott as Wild Bill Hickok.
In 1997, the cartoon series The Legend of Calamity Jane depicted a young Jane (voiced by Barbara Weber Scaff).
Robin Weigert played Calamity Jane in the series Deadwood (2004–2006) and in the HBO sequel Deadwood: The Movie (2019).
In a season two episode of ‘’Bosch: Legacy’’ (2022–2023) a boat pivotal to a case bears the name “Calamity Jane.”

Movies[edit]
In the movie Our Brand Is Crisis (2015), the leading character is named "Calamity" Jane Bodine.

Events[edit]
The town of Princeton, Missouri (her birthplace) hosts Calamity Jane Days the third weekend of each September.[37]

See also[edit]

Biography portal
List of female explorers and travelers
Calamity Jane at Biography.com
Notes[edit]


^ She was functionally illiterate, and the promotional pamphlet she dictated spelled her surname "Cannary" (with two N's) and repeatedly misspelled "Missourri". It also got her birth date wrong, making her about six years too old. There is ample evidence that her surname was probably spelled with only one N, including the census report of her parents when she was 4 years old.[1]

^ She was functionally illiterate, and the promotional pamphlet she dictated spelled her surname "Cannary" (with two N's) and repeatedly misspelled "Missourri". It also got her birth date wrong, making her about six years too old. There is ample evidence that her surname was probably spelled with only one N, including the census report of her parents when she was 4 years old.[1] It is also questioned[by whom?] whether she received her middle name Jane at birth or sometime later.[8][9]


References[edit]


^ a b McLaird 2005, p. 7.

^ Fraga, Kaleena (May 31, 2019). "Calamity Jane: Hard-Scrabble Wild West Heroine Or Compulsive Liar?". All That's Interesting. Retrieved March 9, 2021.

^ "From the real Calamity Jane to 'Madam Moustache': pioneer women of the Wild West". HistoryExtra. Retrieved March 9, 2021.

^ "The Life and Legend of Calamity Jane". CrimeReads. February 11, 2020. Retrieved March 9, 2021.

^ Griske 2005, pp. 83+88.

^ Etulain, Richard (2014). The Life and Legends of Calamity Jane. Norman, Oklahoma: The Oklahoma Western Biographers. pp. 42, 202. ISBN 978-0-8061-4632-4.

^ Jucovy 2012, pp. 47–49.

^ a b Walker 2004, pp. 200–201.

^ a b c d "Girls of the Gulch: Calamity Jane was part of the overhead". Deadwood Magazine. Summer 2001. Archived from the original on August 25, 2018. Retrieved March 1, 2012.

^ a b Griske 2005, pp. 84–86.

^ "Los Angeles Herald". cdnc.ucr.edu. May 18, 1902. Retrieved January 23, 2022 – via California Digital Newspaper Collection.

^ Freeman, Lewis R. (1992). Down The Yellowstone. New York: Dodd, Mead and Company.

^ "Life and Adventures of Calamity Jane, by Martha Cannary Burk; Life And Adventures Of Calamity Jane Page 2". pagebypagebooks.com. Retrieved May 1, 2018.

^ McLaird 2005, p. 58.

^ Jucovy 2012, p. 23.

^ a b McLaird, James D. (Autumn–Winter 1995). "Calamity Jane's Diary and Letters: Story of a Fraud". Montana: The Magazine of Western History. 45, nr. 4: 20–35.

^ McCormick, Jean Hickok, ed. (c. 1949). Copies of Calamity Jane's Diary and Letters, Taken From the Originals Now on Exhibit at the Western Trails Museum, Billings, Montana. Western Trails Museum.

^ Etulain, Richard (2014). The Life and Legends of Calamity Jane. Normon, Oklahoma: The Oklahoma Western Biographies. pp. 50–51. ISBN 978-0-8061-4632-4.

^ Snodgrass, M. E. (2011). Hickok, James Butler "Wild Bill" (1837–1876). In The Civil War era and Reconstruction: An encyclopedia of social, political, cultural, and economic history, (pp. 310–311). Routledge.

^ Estelline Bennet, Old Deadwood Days, pp. 229–232, 240–242. Quote from p. 242. Lincoln Nebraska & London: Bison Books, University of Nebraska Press, 1982. Reprint of J. H. Sears edition (New York), 1928.

^ "Martha Jane 'Calamity Jane' Canary biography". lkwdpl.org. Archived from the original on September 2, 2006. Retrieved July 18, 2008.

^ Bennett, Estelline (1982). Old Deadwood Days. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press. pp. 222–224.

^ Griske 2005, pp. 87–88.

^ S. G. Tillet Letter, 1929 (July 26, 2017). "Historically Yours Podcast Ep. 6: Calamity Jane's Death". University of Iowa Special Collections Blog. Retrieved July 28, 2017.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)

^ Straub, Patrick (November 10, 2009). It Happened in South Dakota: Remarkable Events That Shaped History. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 33. ISBN 978-0-7627-6171-5.

^ Frank Ankeney, Jim Carson, Anson Higby, and Albert Malter

^ Griske 2005, pp. 89.

^ "'Calamity Jane' Director Rémi Chayé On Crafting Vibrant Portrait Of A "Singular" American Legend's Childhood". www.yahoo.com. March 2021. Retrieved March 10, 2021.

^ "Reviews: Review 244: Pirate101 (P101), KingsIsle Entertainment". MMORPG.com.

^ "The BANG! Card Game Blog - Atom". bangcardgame.blogspot.com.

^ "SABER WARS 2 To the Beginning of Space". fate-go.us/saberwars2/.

^ Catherine Jones' website does not give dates for these two creations. I was unable to find a source for the list of productions.

^ WayofStory (May 20, 2016). "Calamity Jane the Play Review". The Way of Story. Retrieved March 10, 2021.

^ "The Rim of Space by A. Bertram Chandler". WOWIO. Retrieved August 25, 2013.

^ Caple, Natalee (2013). In Calamity's Wake. Bloomsbury.

^ "Aces and Eights – Frontier Gentleman (04-20-58) – Old Time Radio Westerns".

^ https://www.kttn.com/princeton-to-host-calamity-jane-days-september-20th-through-22nd/


Bibliography[edit]
Etulain, Richard W. (2014). The Life and Legends of Calamity Jane. Norman, OK: University of Oklahoma Press. ISBN 978-0-8061-4632-4. *Griske, Michael (2005). The Diaries of John Hunton: Made to Last, Written to Last : Sagas of the Western Frontier. Heritage Books. ISBN 978-0-7884-3804-2.
Jucovy, Linda (2012). Searching for Calamity: The Life and Times of Calamity Jane. Philadelphia, PA: Stampede Books. ISBN 978-0-9853003-0-2.
McLaird, James D (2005). Calamity Jane: The Woman and the Legend. University of Oklahoma Press. ISBN 978-0-8061-3591-5.
Walker, Dale L. (2004). The Calamity Papers: Western Myths and Cold Cases. New York: Forge Books. ISBN 978-1-4668-1372-4.
External links[edit]


Library resources about  Calamity Jane 

Online books
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries

By Calamity Jane

Online books
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries


 Media related to Calamity Jane at Wikimedia Commons

Works by Calamity Jane at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Calamity Jane at the Internet Archive
Works by Calamity Jane at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
Martha Jane "Calamity Jane" Cannary at Find a Grave
vteAmerican frontier1776 to 1912Native Nations
Apache
Arapaho
Arikara
Assiniboine (Nakota)
Blackfoot
Cahuilla
Cayuse
Cheyenne
Chinook
Chippewa (Ojibwe)
Caddo
Cocopah
Comanche
Crow
Dakota
Five Civilized Tribes
Hidatsa
Hopi
Hualapai
Kickapoo
Kiowa
Kumeyaay
Kutenai
Lakota
Lenape (Delaware)
Mandan
Maricopa
Modoc
Mohave
Muscogee
Navajo
Nez Perce
Northern Paiute
Nootka (Nuu-chah-nulth)
Pawnee
Pend d'Oreilles
Pequots
Pima
Pueblo
Seminoles
Shoshone
Sioux
Southern Paiute
Tohono Oʼodham
Tonkawa
Umpqua
Ute
Washoe
Yakama
Yaqui
Yavapai
Yuma (Quechan)
Notable peopleNative Americans
Black Hawk
Black Kettle
Bloody Knife
Chief Joseph
Cochise
Degataga
Crazy Bear
Crazy Horse
Crazy Snake
Dasoda-hae
Geronimo
Ganundalegi
Irataba
Kiliahote
Manuelito
Massai
Plenty Coups
Quanah Parker
Red Cloud
Sacagawea
Seattle
Sitting Bull
Smallwood
Snapping Turtle
Standing Bear
Ten Bears
Touch the Clouds
Tuvi
Victorio
Washakie
Explorersand pioneers
Daniel Boone
John Bozeman
Jim Bridger
Tomás Vélez Cachupín
William Clark
Davy Crockett
Donner Party
John C. Frémont
Liver-Eating Johnson
Meriwether Lewis
Joe Mayer
William John Murphy
John Wesley Powell
Juan Rivera
Levi Ruggles
Jedediah Smith
Jack Swilling
Trinidad Swilling
Ora Rush Weed
Richens Lacey Wootton
Henry Wickenburg
"Old Bill" Williams
Brigham Young
Lawmen
Elfego Baca
Charlie Bassett
Roy Bean
Morgan Earp
Virgil Earp
Wyatt Earp
Henry Garfias
Pat Garrett
Jack Helm
"Wild Bill" Hickok
Bat Masterson
"Mysterious Dave" Mather
Bass Reeves
George Scarborough
John Selman
John Horton Slaughter
William "Bill" Tilghman
James Timberlake
Harry C. Wheeler
Outlaws
Billy the Kid
Black Bart
"Curly Bill" Brocius
Butch Cassidy
Billy Clanton
Ike Clanton
Dalton Brothers (Grat, Bill, Bob, Emmett)
Bill Doolin
Bill Downing
John Wesley Hardin
Johnny Ringo
Jesse James
Frank James
Tom Ketchum
Frank McLaury
Tom McLaury
Joaquin Murrieta
Belle Starr
Soapy Smith
Sundance Kid
Younger Brothers (Cole, Bob, Jim, John)
Soldiersand scouts
Frederick Russell Burnham
Kit Carson
"Buffalo Bill" Cody
Texas Jack Omohundro
James C. Cooney
George Crook
George Armstrong Custer
Alexis Godey
Samuel P. Heintzelman
Tom Horn
Calamity Jane
Luther Kelly
Ranald S. Mackenzie
Charley Reynolds
Philip Sheridan
Al Sieber
Others
John Jacob Astor
William H. Boring
Jonathan R. Davis
George Flavel
C. S. Fly
John Joel Glanton
George E. Goodfellow
Doc Holliday
Andrew Jackson
Zephaniah Kingsley
Seth Kinman
Octaviano Larrazolo
Nat Love
Sylvester Mowry
Emperor Norton
Annie Oakley
Sedona Schnebly
Thomas William Sweeny
Peter Lebeck
Frontier culture
American bison
Barbed wire
Boot Hill
Cattle drive
Cowboy poetry
Cattle rustling
Cow town
Fast draw
Ghost town
Gunfights
Homesteading
Land rush
Manifest destiny
Moonshine
One-room schoolhouse
Rocky Mountain Rendezvous
Rodeo
Stagecoach
Train robbery
Vigilante justice
Western saloon
Tack piano
Westward expansion
Wild West shows
Transportand trails
Barlow Road
Bozeman Trail
Butterfield Trail
California Trail
Chisholm Trail
Great Platte River Road
Great Western Cattle Trail
Lolo Pass
Meek Cutoff
Mormon Trail
Oregon Trail
Pony Express
Santa Fe Trail
Southern Emigrant Trail
Tanner Trail
First transcontinental railroad
Folklore
Dead man's hand
Dime novel
John Henry
Johnny Kaw
Long Tom's treasure
Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine
Lost Ship of the Desert
Montezuma's treasure
Paul Bunyan
Pecos Bill
Seven Cities of Gold
Gold rushes
Black Hills Gold Rush
California Gold Rush
Confederate Gulch and Diamond City
Klondike Gold Rush
Pike's Peak Gold Rush
Gunfights
Battle of Coffeyville
Battle of Lincoln
Frisco shootout
Gunfight at the O.K. Corral
Long Branch Saloon gunfight
Variety Hall shootout
Military conflicts
Battle of the Alamo
Battle of Glorieta Pass
Battle of the Little Bighorn
Battle of San Jacinto
Battle of Washita River
Bear Flag Revolt
Chimayó Rebellion
First Battle of Adobe Walls
Indian Wars
Mexican War
Sand Creek massacre
Seminole Wars
Texas Revolution
Wounded Knee Massacre
Range warsand feuds
Earp-Clanton feud
Johnson County War
Lincoln County War
Mason County War
Pleasant Valley War
Sheep Wars
Sutton–Taylor feud
Lists
Arizona Rangers
Bibliography of the American frontier
Cowboys and cowgirls
Gangs
Ghost towns
Gunfights
Lawmen
Mountain men
Outlaws
Timeline of the American Old West
Influence
Cuisine of the Western United States
Chuckwagon
Californian
Native American
New Mexican
New Mexico chile
Pacific Northwestern
Rocky Mountain oysters
Tex-Mex
Gothic Western
Weird West
Western genre
Western lifestyle
Western music
New Mexico
Red Dirt
Tejano
Texas country
Western wear
Cowboy boots
Cowboy hat
Jeans
Snap fastener
PlacesAlaska
Anchorage
Iditarod
Nome
Seward
Skagway
Arizona Territory
Canyon Diablo
Fort Grant
Prescott
Phoenix
Tombstone
Tucson
Window Rock
Yuma
California
Bakersfield
Fresno
Jamestown
Los Angeles
Sacramento
San Diego
San Francisco
Colorado
Creede
Denver
Telluride
Trinidad
Dakota Territory
Bismarck
Deadwood
Fargo
Fort Yates
Pine Ridge
Rapid City
Standing Rock
Yankton
Florida Territory
Angola
Negro Fort
Pensacola
Prospect Bluff
St. Augustine
St. Marks
Tallahassee
Idaho Territory
Fort Boise
Fort Hall
Illinois
Fort Dearborn
Kansas
Abilene
Dodge City
Ellsworth
Hays
Leavenworth
Wichita
Missouri
Independence
Kansas City
St. Louis

Montana Territory
Billings
Bozeman
Deer Lodge
Fort Benton
Fort Peck
Helena
Livingston
Missoula
Virginia City
Nebraska
Chadron
Fort Atkinson
Fort Robinson
Nebraska City
Ogallala
Omaha
Valentine
Whiteclay
Nevada
Carson City
Virginia City
Reno
New Mexico Territory
Alamogordo
Albuquerque
Cimarron
Fort Sumner
Gallup
Las Vegas
Lincoln
Mesilla
Mogollon
Roswell
Santa Fe
Tucumcari
Oklahoma Territoryand Indian Territory
Broken Arrow
Fort Gibson
Fort Sill
Oklahoma City
Okmulgee
Pawhuska
Tahlequah
Tishomingo
Tuskahoma
Wewoka
Oregon Territory
Astoria
The Dalles
La Grande
McMinnville
Oregon City
Portland
Salem
Vale
Texas
Austin
Abilene
El Paso
Fort Worth
Gonzales
Lubbock
San Antonio
Utah Territory
Salt Lake City
Washington Territory
Everett
Port Townsend
Seattle
Vancouver
Wyoming Territory
Fort Bridger
Fort Laramie

 Category

vteAmerican folkloreNative
Alaska
California
Salishan
Folk heroes
Johnny Appleseed
Elfego Baca
Daniel Boone
Br'er Rabbit
Jim Bridger
Paul Bunyan
Davy Crockett
Mike Fink
Geronimo
John Henry
Calamity Jane
Casey Jones
Molly Pitcher
Theodore Roosevelt
Ola Värmlänning
Idiomatic figures
Average Joe
Cooter Brown
Jack Robinson
Sam Hide
Uncle Sam
Fearsome critters
Agropelter
Axehandle hound
Ball-tailed cat
Belled buzzard
Cactus cat
Champ
Dungavenhooter
Fur-bearing trout
Gillygaloo
Glawackus
Goofus bird
Gumberoo
Hidebehind
Hodag
Hoop snake
Hugag
Jackalope
Jersey Devil
Joint snake
Sidehill gouger
Snallygaster
Snipe
Snow snake
Splintercat
Squonk
Teakettler
Wampus cat
Ghosts
Bell Witch
Ghosts of the American Civil War
Lincoln's ghost
La Llorona
Red Ghost
White Lady
Legends
Bloodstopping
Campfire story
Confederate gold
Fountain of Youth
Goatman (urban legend)
Lost Dutchman's Gold Mine
Lost Ship of the Desert
Madstone
Mercy Brown vampire incident
Mothman
Seven Cities of Gold
Tailypo
Westerns
Cowboys/Vaqueros
African
Flying Africans
Uncle Remus
Literary folk heroes
Alfred Bulltop Stormalong
Annie Christmas
Brother Jonathan
Casey at the Bat
Cordwood Pete
Evangeline
Febold Feboldson
Ichabod Crane
Joe Magarac
Johnny Kaw
Kemp Morgan
Mose Humphrey
Ole Pete
Pecos Bill
Rip Van Winkle
Tony Beaver
Windwagon Smith

vteBlack Hills of South Dakota and WyomingAttractions
Bear Butte
Bear Country USA
Black Elk Wilderness
Black Hills Central Railroad
Black Hills National Forest
Black Elk Peak
Black Hills Playhouse
Chapel in the Hills
Crazy Horse Memorial
Custer State Park
Devils Tower
Dinosaur Park
Flintstones Bedrock City
Gordon Stockade
Homestake Mine
Jewel Cave National Monument
The Mammoth Site
Minuteman Missile National Historic Site
Mount Rushmore
Mount Theodore Roosevelt Monument
Mystic Miner Ski Resort
Needles
Pactola Lake
Reptile Gardens
Rushmore Cave
Sheridan Lake
Sitting Bull Crystal Caverns
Sturgis Motorcycle Rally
Sylvan Lake
Terry Peak ski area
Wind Cave National Park with bison herd
Scenic routesRoads
Norbeck Scenic Byway
Iron Mountain Road
Needles Highway
Spearfish Canyon Scenic Byway
Trails
Black Hills Centennial Trail
George S. Mickelson Trail
PopulatedplacesCities
Belle Fourche
Central City
Custer
Deadwood
Edgemont
Hot Springs
Hill City
Lead
Newcastle
Rapid City
Spearfish
Sturgis
Whitewood
Towns
Buffalo Gap
Fairburn
Hermosa
Keystone
Pringle
Sundance
Unincorporated
Dewey
Four Mile
Galena
Hanna
Johnson Siding
Nemo
Rochford
Rockerville
Silver City
Three Forks
Historyand peopleNative American
Cheyenne
Lakota people
Treaty of Fort Laramie (1868) established the Great Sioux Reservation
Black Hills War, or Great Sioux War (1876)
Black Elk
Sitting Bull
Crazy Horse
Lone Horn
Red Cloud
Spotted Tail
Old West
Dakota Territory (1861–1889)
Black Hills Expedition (1874)
Black Hills gold rush (1874)
Newton–Jenney Party (1875)
Cheyenne-Black Hills Stage Route (1876–1887)
Sidney-Black Hills Stage Road (1876–1887)
Rapid City, Black Hills and Western Railroad (1893–1947)
Seth Bullock and Martha Bullock
General George Armstrong Custer
Dora DuFran
Wild Bill Hickok
Calamity Jane
Historian Doane Robinson
Sol Star
Al Swearengen
Charlie Utter
Ghost towns
Addie Camp
Bismuth
Blacktail
Burdock
Cambria
Carbonate
Etta
Flatiron
Greenwood
Maitland
Myers City
Mystic
Nahant
Novak
Pactola
Sheridan
Spokane
Terraville
Tigerville
Tinton
Trojan
Modern
Fossil Cycad National Monument (1922–1957)
Stratobowl (1934–1959)
Black Hills flood (1972)
2000 Jasper Fire
Sculptors Gutzon Borglum and Lincoln Borglum
Author Joseph Bottum
Politician Francis Case
Poet Charles Badger Clark
Historian Watson Parker
Transit
Rapid City Rapid Ride
Jefferson Lines
Road junctions
Cheyenne Crossing
Four Corners
Four Mile
Keystone Wye
Maverick Junction
Mule Creek Junction
Related
Mount Rushmore in popular culture

vteProstitution in the United StatesAreas
American Samoa
California
Prostitution in Los Angeles in the 19th century
Guam
Hawaii
Nevada
Rhode Island
Texas
Brothels
217 West Main Street
Angel's Ladies
Arnold's Bar and Grill
Ash Meadows Sky Ranch
Bird Cage Theatre
Chicken Ranch (Nevada)
Chicken Ranch (Texas)
Cottontail Ranch
Dennis Hof's Love Ranch
Donna's Ranch
Dumas Brothel
Everleigh Club
Fort Laramie Three-Mile Hog Ranch
Gleim Building
Kit Kat Guest Ranch
Lester Apartments
List of brothels in Nevada
The Love Ranch
Mary Todd Lincoln House
Miss Hattie's Bordello
Moonlite BunnyRanch
Mustang Ranch
No. 1 Geisha
Old Bridge Ranch
Paresis Hall
Sagebrush Ranch
Shady Lady Ranch
Sheri's Ranch
The Star
Stone Jail Building and Row House
Wild Horse Adult Resort & Spa
Willis House
Law
Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open Society International, Inc.
2013
2020
Bennis v. Michigan
Chamberlain–Kahn Act
Mann Act
Raines law
Red Light Abatement Act
Regulating Brothel Prostitution in St. Paul, 1865–1883
Media
American Pimp
Dreamcatcher
Secrets of a Hollywood Super Madam
Organizations
BAYSWAN
COYOTE
Equality Now
Free the Slaves
SWOP-USA
PeopleActivists
Norma Jean Almodovar
Fred Cherry
Committee of Fifteen
Committee of Fourteen
Robyn Few
Melissa Gira Grant
Carol Leigh
Alice Little
Rose Livingston
Meg Muñoz
New England Female Moral Reform Society
New York Female Moral Reform Society
Polaris Project
Tracy Quan
Audacia Ray
Annie Sprinkle
Margo St. James
Sheila White
Brothelownersandmadams
Elizabeth Adams (aka, Madam Alex)
Polly Adler
Ah Toy
Josephine Airey
Brenda Allen
Josie Arlington
Dorothy Baker
Sydney Biddle Barrows
Big Sue
Belle Brezing
Julia Bulette
Hilma Burt
Nina Clifford
Big Jim Colosimo
Joseph Conforte
Belle Cora (Arabella Ryan)
Cora Crane
Ana Cumpănaș
Kristin M. Davis
Phoebe Doty
Dora DuFran
Ada and Minna Everleigh
Mame Faye
Vina Fields
Heidi Fleiss
Jody Gibson
Dante "Tex" Gill
Mary Gleim
Lou Graham
Eunice Gray
Mary Ann Hall
Hester Jane Haskins
Eliza Haycraft
Mike Heitler
Dennis Hof
Mollie Johnson
Lizzie Lape
Kitty Leroy
Red Light Lizzie
Laura Bell McDaniel
Adeline Miller
Mother Damnable
Meg Muñoz
Deborah Jeane Palfrey
Grace Peixotto
Willie Piazza
Poker Alice
Fannie Porter
Mattie Silks
Sally Stanford
Pearl Starr
Libby Thompson
Mary Thompson
Kate Townsend
Frederick Trump
Deborah L. Turbiville
Pearl de Vere
Tessie Wall
Lulu White
Minnie White
Anna Wilson
Louise Wooster
Courtesans
Ashley Alexandra Dupré
Lillie Langtry
Fanny White
Pimps
Scotty Bowers
Hester Jane Haskins
Mike Heitler
Dennis Hof
Ice-T
Iceberg Slim
Don "Magic" Juan
Red Light Lizzie
Jack Ruby
Lee Shelton
Fillmore Slim
Al Swearengen
Dennis Tinerino
Prostitutes
Ah Toy
Air Force Amy
Josephine Airey
Brenda Allen
Norma Jean Almodovar
Josie Arlington
Mickey Avalon
Dorothy Baker
Richard Berkowitz
Diamond Bessie
Big Nose Kate
Mattie Blaylock
Scotty Bowers
Gary Ray Bowles
Sarah A. Bowman
Brandi Britton
Carrie Brown
Julia Brown
Julia Bulette
Lisa Crystal Carver
Sylvia Clevenger
Andrew Cunanan
Honeysuckle Divine
Issan Dorsey
Phoebe Doty
Dora DuFran
Pearl Elliott
Robyn Few
Alexis Fire
Albert Fish
Florrie Fisher
Heidi Fleiss
Ali Forney
Denham Fouts
Ronnie Lee Gardner
Jody Gibson
Billi Gordon
Maggie Hall
Fred Halsted
Eliza Haycraft
Toni Jo Henry
Richard Holcomb
Endesha Ida Mae Holland
Xaviera Hollander
Amber L. Hollibaugh
Jason Holliday
John Holmes
Calamity Jane
Helen Jewett
Dean Johnson
Mollie Johnson
Robert La Tourneaux
Jillian Lauren
Kitty Leroy
Rose Livingston
Alice Little
Annie Lobert
Crazy Lou
Brooke Magnanti
Chicago May
Rosa May
Laura Bell McDaniel
Adeline Miller
Della Moore
Tanya Moore
Vicki Morgan
Mother Featherlegs
Jean O'Hara
Barbara Payton
Louise Peete
Willie Piazza
Fannie Porter
Tracy Quan
Tina Rodriguez
Shalimar Seiuli
Mattie Silks
Valerie Solanas
Almeda Sperry
Annie Sprinkle
Nancy Spungen
Margo St. James
Pearl Starr
David Henry Sterry
Star Stowe
Sunset Thomas
Estella Marie Thompson
Libby Thompson
Mary Ellen Tracy
Tiger Tyson
Pearl de Vere
Sheila White
Anna Wilson
Louise Wooster
Aileen Wuornos
Venus Xtravaganza
Johns
Craig J. Spence
Eliot Spitzer
Red-light districts
Barbary Coast, San Francisco
The Block, Baltimore
Broadway (San Francisco)
Bucktown, Davenport
Burnt District, Omaha
Cheshire Bridge Road
Chinatown, Honolulu
Columbus Avenue (San Francisco)
Combat Zone, Boston
Creek Street (Ketchikan, Alaska)
Fremont Street
Hell's Half Acre (Fort Worth)
Hunts Point, Bronx
Kensington, Philadelphia
Las Vegas Strip
The Levee, Chicago
Liberty Avenue (Pittsburgh)
Minnesota Strip
Murrell's Row
Nevada State Route 582
North Street (Boston)
Northern Liberties, Philadelphia
San Antonio Sporting District
Sepulveda Boulevard
Slabtown (Atlanta)
SoHo, Manhattan
Sporting District, Omaha
Stingaree, San Diego
Storyville, New Orleans
Sunset Boulevard
Tenderloin, Manhattan
Tenderloin, San Francisco
Times Square
Venus Alley, Butte
Western Avenue (Los Angeles)
Violence
Denver Prostitute Killer
Disappearance of Jessie Foster
Murder of Carrie Brown
Murder of Tanya Moore and Tina Rodriguez
Other
1989 DC Prostitute Expulsion
Big Apple Oriental Tours
Church penitentiary
Commercial sexual exploitation of children
Emperors Club VIP
Hookers for Hillary
John Hour
John school
Operation Stormy Nights
Police abuse of sex workers
Prostitution in Harlem Renaissance
Sex trafficking
Three minute men
Truckers Against Trafficking

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAF2FASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataItalyAustraliaCzech RepublicSpainNetherlandsNorwayGreeceSwedenPolandIsraelArtistsMusicBrainzPeopleTroveDeutsche BiographieOtherIdRefSNAC



