

This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Clayton Bellamy" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (January 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Clayton BellamyOriginBonnyville, Alberta, CanadaGenresCountry rock n rollOccupation(s)Singer-songwriter, radio personality record producerInstrumentsGuitarVocals harmonicaLabelsMDM Recordings Inc.EMI Music CanadaOpen Road Recordings Anthem RecordsWebsitewww.claytonbellamy.comMusical artist
Clayton Bellamy is a Canadian singer-songwriter
He grew up in Bonnyville, Alberta before his family settled in Nashville, Tennessee.
He has won many awards including a JUNO for Best Country Recording, a five time Canadian Country Music Award winner Canadian Country Music Awards, and SOCAN Songwriter of the Year award, Radio Music Award song of the year, five CMAB awards for song, video, Entertainer, Group, and Roots Artist. Clayton has dominated the stage performing at the Grand Ole Opry has been featured in People Magazine The New York Times and Rolling Stone and even performed for President Carter.  He has released five solo studio records and has had songs recorded by Big Sugar Matt Anderson Grady Dan Davidson Jason Blaine W3apons The Standstills FKB Willie Mack, Hayley Jensen and many more. He has had top ten singles in both Country and Active Rock radio. 
Bellamy is also one of the three members of the group The Road Hammers, the highest selling Canadian Country group in Canadian history. They have released five  studio albums, in addition to charting twelve singles in Canada with two number one singles and two in the United States. He is currently touring with The Road Hammers and his rock n roll band Clayton Bellamy & The Congregation they have released two albums. 


Discography[edit]
Studio albums[edit]


Title

Details


Running on Empty


Release date: Sept 1 1999
Label:


The Clayton Bellamy Band


Release date: June 11, 2001
Label:


Everyone’s a Dreamer


Release date: Sept 1 2012
Label: MDM


Five Crow Silver


Release date: June 11, 2013
Label: MDM


Welcome to the Congregation


Release date: Sept 1 2019
Label: Anthem


The Ugly Truth


Release date: Nov 2022
Label: Monkey Nerve/FUGA

Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Album


2012

"Everyone's a Dreamer"

Everyone's a Dreamer


"That Ain't Gonna Fly"


"Straight Into the Sun"


2013

"Goodbye America"

Five Crow Silver


"Days Aren't Long Enough"(with Kelly Prescott)

Music videos[edit]


Year

Video

Director


2012

"Everyone's a Dreamer"




"That Ain't Gonna Fly"

Sean Smith


"Straight Into the Sun"

Awards[edit]
1 SOCAN Songwriter of the Year
4 CCMA Award
1 Juno Award Best Country Recording
Western Canadian Music Award for Best Country Recording
Radio Music Award Recipient
References[edit]
[1]



^ "Clayton Bellamy 'Dreams' with his fans". Topcountry.ca. February 2, 2012. Retrieved January 7, 2019.


External links[edit]
Official website
The Road Hammers Official
vteThe Road Hammers
Jason McCoy
Clayton Bellamy
 Chris Byrne 
Studio albums
The Road Hammers  (2005)
The Road Hammers II  (2009)
Wheels (2014)
Songs
"East Bound and Down"
"Girl on the Billboard"
"I've Been Everywhere"

Authority control databases: Artists MusicBrainz



