American singer-songwriter


Donovan ChapmanBackground informationOriginFarmerville, Louisiana, United StatesGenresCountryOccupationSinger-songwriterInstrument(s)VocalsguitarukuleleYears active2003–presentLabelsCurbCategory 5Musical artist
Donovan Chapman (born in Farmerville, Louisiana) is an American country music artist. he has recorded two studio albums: one on Curb Records, and one on Category 5 Records. He has also charted four singles on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts, with his highest being the No. 42-peaking "House Like That" in late 2006-early 2007.


Biography[edit]
Chapman was raised in Farmerville, Louisiana.[1] His mother, a native of Hawaii, exposed him to Hawaiian music at an early age, and he soon learned to play the ukulele.[1]
At age seventeen, Chapman enlisted in the United States Air Force. He spent eleven years in the Air Force, serving for five years in U.S. Air Force Security Forces and six years as a Pararescueman.[2] During his leave time, he met Mike Curb, head of the Curb Records label, and was soon signed to the label.
Chapman's first single, "There Is No War", was released in 2003. The single was dedicated to families of American soldiers who had died overseas.[3] Chapman recorded two albums for Curb Records, shortly before returning to duty in Afghanistan.[4] In the same time, Chapman released a self titled EP, followed by his first full album, I Am America.
After returning to the United States, he signed to Category 5 Records. His first single for Category 5, "House Like That", was released in late 2006.[5] A second single, "All I Need", was released in 2007, shortly before Chapman terminated his relationship with Category 5 Records. "House Like That" was produced by Billy Joe Walker, Jr.
Chapman's music career went into hiatus after he suffered from post traumatic stress disorder stemming from his service in the Air Force. After recovering, he released the album Brotherhood in late 2021.[6]
In September 2023, Chapman released his album "Raised Old School" which has the singles "Old School and Whatcha Know About That." Blake Shelton and Craig Morgan's fiddle player, Jim Ed Hodges along with Clint Black's drummer, Andy Hull and session and touring bassist, Todd Ashburn can be seen playing in the video "Old School." The company Four Branches Bourbon also uses the song and video "Old School" in their commercials. Chapman was the opening act for Montgomery Gentry's, Eddie Montgomery all of 2023 and into 2024.

Discography[edit]
Studio albums[edit]


Title

Album details


I Am America


Release date: November 14, 2006
Label: Curb Records


Brotherhood


Release date: October 29, 2021
Label: Self-released

Extended plays[edit]


Title

Album details


Donovan Chapman


Release date: August 16, 2005
Label: Curb Records

Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Peak positions

Album


US Country


2003

"There Is No War"

58

Donovan Chapman


2004

"Hey Hollywood"

56


"Panama City"

—


"Good Problem to Have"

—


2006

"House Like That"

42

I Am America


2007

"All I Need"

58


"—" denotes releases that did not chart

References[edit]


^ a b Curb.com : Donovan Chapman biography

^ "Singer encourages new recruits to stay focused > U.S. Air Force > Article Display". Af.mil. Retrieved November 7, 2015.

^ Former Staff Sergeant USAF and Member of Elite Air Force Pararescue PJs & Now Curb Recording Artist Donovan Chapman Releases "There Is No War" Families Across U.S. Embrace Song During Holidays Without Loved Ones. (brief article)

^ Press Release.pdf Archived September 29, 2007, at the Wayback Machine

^ Category 5 signs new artist

^ "New Album from Donovan Chapman".


Authority control databases: Artists MusicBrainz



