American musical group


This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources.Find sources: "Drew Davis Band" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2020)
Drew Davis BandOriginLos Angeles, CaliforniaGenresRock, countryYears active2001–2010LabelsWindswept, 903, Lofton CreekPast membersDrew Davis Mike Drake Loren Ellis Jay Hawks Mo Levone Roger Malinowski
The Drew Davis Band was an American rock, country music group established in 2001 by Drew Davis (lead vocals, guitar), Mike Drake (guitar, harmonica, fiddle), Loren Ellis (banjo, guitar, mandolin, vocals), Jay Hawks (drums), Mo Levone (bass guitar, vocals), and Roger Malinkowski (keyboards).[1]
In 2004, the band competed in and won the Colgate Country Showdown; shortly afterward, they were signed to Windswept Publishing, with a self-titled EP being released that year. Eventually, they were transferred to 903 Music, a short-lived record label founded by Neal McCoy; upon the label's closure in 2007, the band was transferred to Lofton Creek Records. Both Mike Drake and Jay Hawks have since left the group. The band's debut single, "Back There All the Time", entered the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts. It was included on both their self-titled EP and on their 2008 album Crossroads. Roger Malinowski left the band in 2009 to be David Spade's stuntman.
The Drew Davis Band was featured on an episode of Gene Simmons Family Jewels on August 9, 2009.  The episode also featured a guest appearance by Trace Adkins. They also performed the theme song for the Disney Channel series Phil of the Future and The Suite Life of Zack & Cody.


Discography[edit]
Studio albums[edit]


Title

Album details


Crossroads


Release date: July 8, 2008
Label: DELM Records

Extended plays[edit]


Title

Album details


Drew Davis Band EP


Release date: October 4, 2005
Label: Windswept Records

Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Peak positions

Album


US Country


2005

"Back There All the Time"

—

Drew Davis Band EP


2008

"Back There All the Time" (re-release)

58

Crossroads


"How Do I"

—


"—" denotes releases that did not chart


Music videos[edit]


Year

Video


2005

"Back There All the Time"

References[edit]


^ "The Drew Davis Band biography". Country Music Television. Archived from the original on September 27, 2008. Retrieved January 26, 2008.


Authority control databases: Artists MusicBrainz


This article on a United States country music band is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.vte



