American country musician (1937–2014)


George Hamilton IVGeorge Hamilton IV at the Grand Ole Opry in 2007Background informationBirth nameGeorge Hege Hamilton IVBorn(1937-07-19)July 19, 1937Winston-Salem, North Carolina, U.S.DiedSeptember 17, 2014(2014-09-17) (aged 77)Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.GenresCountryOccupationSingerInstrument(s)Vocals, guitarYears active1956–2014LabelsABC, Colonial, RCA Victor, LamonWebsiteweb.archive.org/web/20120812050350/http://georgeiv.net/ (archived)Musical artist
George Hege Hamilton IV (July 19, 1937 – September 17, 2014) was an American country musician. He began performing in the late 1950s as a teen idol, switching to country music in the early 1960s.


Biography[edit]
Hamilton was born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, United States, on July 19, 1937,[1] the son of Moravian parents George Hege Hamilton III and Mary Lilian (née Pendry). He was introduced to country music by his paternal grandfather, a railroad worker. His great-grandfather, the first George Hege Hamilton, was a farmer, of a family that came from Scotland to America in 1685.[2][3]
George Hamilton IV attended Richard J. Reynolds High School, and is among several notable singers and songwriters to have attended that school, including Peter Holsapple and Greg Humphreys. While a 19-year-old student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Hamilton recorded "A Rose and a Baby Ruth" for a Chapel Hill record label, Colonial Records.[1] The song, written by John D. Loudermilk, climbed to number six on the United States Billboard Hot 100 chart.[1] By 1960, "A Rose and a Baby Ruth" had attained gold record status for ABC-Paramount (which had acquired the song from Colonial).[4] The self-penned B-side of the record, "If You Don't Know, I Ain't Gonna Tell You", revealed Hamilton's ambitions to be a rockabilly-country singer.[1]
After a string of pop hits, Hamilton joined the Rockabilly Tour playing with Eddie Cochran, Buddy Holly, the Everly Brothers, Little Richard, and several others throughout the country. Hamilton was then invited to Washington, DC, to become a member of the cast of The Jimmy Dean Show, where he performed regularly with Patsy Cline and Jimmy Dean. He also appeared on Dick Clark’s American Bandstand, Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts, and The Perry Como Show. Hamilton went on to host his own national television musical/variety shows on ABC and CBS in the late 1950s. In late 1959, Hamilton moved his family to Nashville to further his work as a country musician.[1][5] On February 8, 1960, Hamilton officially became a member of the Grand Ole Opry.[6][7] Later that same year, he began recording for RCA Records, having been signed by Chet Atkins.[1]
Hamilton's breakthrough hit was the 1961 song "Before this Day Ends". His biggest hit came two years later with "Abilene", another song penned by Loudermilk, along with Bob Gibson and Lester Brown.[1] The song spent four weeks at number one on Billboard's country singles chart and reached the Top 20 of the Hot 100. The success of "Abilene" was followed with the song "Fort Worth, Dallas or Houston" (a top-five hit in late 1964).[1]
In 1962, Hamilton started the first Music City USA and Homes of the Stars Bus Tour in Nashville.  By the mid-1960s, Hamilton's music began showing a decidedly folk influence. This was especially evident with 1966's "Steel Rail Blues" and "Early Morning Rain" (both by Gordon Lightfoot), and 1967's "Urge for Going" penned by Joni Mitchell.[1] Another 1967 hit was "Break My Mind" (by John D. Loudermilk).[1] One more Hamilton song of this genre was a moderate hit in 1969—the Ray Griff-penned "Canadian Pacific".[1] His last top-five single came in 1970, with "She's a Little Bit Country".
After his American chart success declined in the early 1970s, Hamilton began touring the world, across the Soviet Union, Poland, Australia, the Middle East, and East Asia. Those widely acclaimed international performances earned Hamilton the nickname the International Ambassador of Country Music.[8] In the 1970s, Hamilton was the first American country singer to have his own British TV series on BBC. He also hosted a successful TV series in Canada for six years in the late 1970s. In the 1990s, he played himself in the West End musical Patsy, based on the life of Patsy Cline.
In the 1980s, Hamilton appeared with Billy Graham on Ministry Tours throughout the United States and Canada, and including the UK tour "Mission England".[1]
In 2004, he recorded an acoustic gospel album with producer Dave Moody titled On a Blue Ridge Sunday, which earned Hamilton a Dove Award nomination in the "Best Bluegrass Album of the Year" category by the members of the Gospel Music Association. A single from the album, "Little Mountain Church House", won nominee recognition in the "Best Bluegrass Recorded Song" category the following year.[9]
Until the very late years of his life, Hamilton was a regular at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville and in country shows throughout the U.S. and the UK. Hamilton celebrated his 50th year as a Grand Ole Opry member in 2010.  He mainly concentrated on gospel tours both at home and abroad. In 2007, he collaborated with Live Issue,[10] a group from Northern Ireland, to record a live album based on the life of Joseph Scriven, who wrote the hymn "What a Friend We Have in Jesus". The two also toured together again in 2009.
In 2008, at the height of the soaring U.S. gas prices, Hamilton released "Gasoline", a parody of his classic hit "Abilene".  The acoustic single featured "The Oil Spots" (a.k.a. the Moody Brothers & George Hamilton V) and became a hit with audiences during Hamilton's Opry appearances. Hamilton was also a regular participant in the Country's Family Reunion video series.
In 2010, Lamon Records released the album Old Fashioned Hymns, recorded transatlantic with producers Dave Moody in Nashville and Colin Elliott in Ireland. Hamilton was joined on the 28-track collection by a number of musical guests, including Ricky Skaggs, Marty Stuart, Gail Davies, Pat Boone, Del McCoury, Bill Anderson, Connie Smith, Tommy Cash, Cliff Barrows, and George Beverly Shea, among others.

Personal life and death[edit]
Hamilton married his high school sweetheart Adelaide "Tink" Peyton and had two sons, George and Peyton, and one daughter, Mary. When Hamilton's elder son George Hege Hamilton V was seven years old, he found one of his father's guitars and began writing songs. He became a singer, using the name "Hege V" because his father and the actor, George Hamilton were already both using the same name. The younger Hamilton said his father "never pushed me", but he eventually began playing in nightclubs. On his tours, which sometimes included his father, Hege V played rhythm guitar and sang harmony and occasionally the lead, including some of his father's songs.[11] George has four grandchildren including George Hege "Nash" Hamilton VI,[2] Peyton McAlester Hamilton, Aubrey Elizabeth Arcure, and James Michael "Mick" Arcure.[citation needed]
Hamilton had a heart attack on September 13, 2014, and died on September 17 at Saint Thomas Midtown Hospital in Nashville.[12] On September 24, the Ryman Auditorium hosted a memorial service, which included performances by Marty Stuart, Ricky Skaggs, the Whites, Jett Williams, Gail Davies, Connie Smith, Dave Moody, Jimmy Capps, Barry and Holly Tashian, the Babcocks, Andrew Greer, and Cindy Morgan. Those who shared stories of Hamilton's life and career at the memorial service included English music historian and journalist Tony Byworth, music writer and author Frye Galliard, artists and songwriters John D. Loudermilk and Bill Anderson, Grand Ole Opry general manager Pete Fisher, and WSM announcer Eddie Stubbs. The service concluded with "Amazing Grace" performed on bagpipes by Nashville Pipes and Drums Pipe Sergeant David Goodman.[13] George Hamilton IV is buried in God's Acre Cemetery in Old Salem, North Carolina.[14]
The George Hamilton IV Collection is located in the Southern Folklife Collection of the Wilson Library of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.[15]

Honors[edit]
Hamilton was inducted into the North Carolina Music Hall of Fame in 2010.[16]
The North Carolina Board of Transportation voted to name a bridge on Business 40 for Hamilton. The ceremony naming the bridge was held on July 19, 2016, which would have been Hamilton's 79th birthday.[17][18]

Discography[edit]
Main article: George Hamilton IV discography
References[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to George Hamilton IV.



^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Colin Larkin, ed. (1992). The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music (First ed.). Guinness Publishing. p. 1065/6. ISBN 0-85112-939-0.

^ a b "George Hamilton IV obituary". The Guardian. September 18, 2014. Retrieved March 21, 2022.

^ http://www.capitol.tn.gov/Bills/106/Bill/SJR0811.pdf [bare URL PDF]

^ Murrells, Joseph (1978). The Book of Golden Discs (2nd ed.). London: Barrie and Jenkins Ltd. p. 82. ISBN 0-214-20512-6.

^ "A Rose and a Baby Ruth" was issued in UK as "A Rose and a Candy Bar", as the Baby Ruth bar was unknown there.George Hamilton IV and Friends Biography Page

^ "George Hamilton IV". Grand Ole Opry. Archived from the original on March 13, 2017. Retrieved June 29, 2012.

^ "Opry Member List PDF" (PDF). April 23, 2012. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 7, 2012. Retrieved June 29, 2012.

^ "Inventory of the George Hamilton IV Papers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill". Lib.unc.edu. Retrieved September 18, 2014.

^ "GMA Press Room Online". Gospel Music Association. Archived from the original on July 6, 2010.

^ "Official Live Issue Website". Liveissue.ik.com. Archived from the original on June 22, 2009. Retrieved September 18, 2014.

^ Hurst, Jack (June 8, 1987). "Hege V Dries His Tears, Hits the Road for 'House'". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved January 29, 2019.

^ "Opry star George Hamilton IV dead at age 77". The Tennessean. Retrieved September 17, 2014.

^ "George Hamilton Iv Memorial Service". Spoonercentral.com. September 24, 2014. Retrieved August 17, 2015.

^ Mr. George Hamilton IV Background information  – City of Winston-Salem

^ "George Hamilton IV Collection, 1956–2013". finding-aids.lib.unc.edu. Retrieved November 6, 2017.

^ "2010 Inductees". North Carolina Music Hall of Fame. Retrieved September 10, 2012.

^ Evans, Meghann (October 9, 2015). "Business 40 bridge named after George Hamilton IV". Winston-Salem Journal.

^ Hinton, John (July 19, 2016). "Winston-Salem bridge renamed in honor of music star George Hamilton IV". Winston-Salem Journal.


External links[edit]
George Hamilton IV at IMDb
George Hamilton IV discography at Discogs
vteGeorge Hamilton IVStudio albums
Songs for a Winter's Night (1982)
Singles
"A Rose and a Baby Ruth"
"Why Don't They Understand"
"I Know Where I'm Goin'"
"Your Cheatin' Heart"
"Abilene"
"Truck Drivin' Man"
"Early Morning Rain"
"Canadian Pacific"
"Carolina in My Mind"
"She's a Little Bit Country"
"Back Where It's At"
"Anyway"
"Countryfied"
"Dirty Old Man"
"I Wonder Who's Kissing Her Now"
Related
Discography

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy Awards



