American singer-songwriter
This article is about the American rockabilly and country singer. For the American opera singer, see Janis Martin (soprano).
This article includes a list of general references, but it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Janis MartinMartin in 1956Background informationBirth nameJanis Darlene MartinBorn(1940-03-27)March 27, 1940OriginSutherlin, Virginia, United StatesDiedSeptember 3, 2007(2007-09-03) (aged 67)GenresRockabilly, country, rock and rollOccupationSingerYears active1956–2007LabelsRCA, PaletteMusical artist
Janis Darlene Martin (March 27, 1940 – September 3, 2007) was an American rockabilly and country music singer. She was one of the few women working in the male-dominated rock and roll music field during the 1950s and one of country music's early female innovators. Martin was nicknamed the Female Elvis for her dance moves on stage, similar to those of Elvis Presley.


Biography[edit]
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Janis Martin" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Early life and rise to fame[edit]
Martin was born in Sutherlin, Virginia, east of Danville. Her mother was a stage mother, and her father and uncle were both musicians. Before she was six, Martin was already singing and playing the guitar, inspired by Eddy Arnold and Hank Williams. 
Over the years, this resulted in statewide contests with over 200 contestants, which she won. As a result, Janis was asked to play on the same bill as Cowboy Copas and Sunshine Sue.  Through them Martin became a member of the Old Dominion Barndance on WRVA, which came out of Richmond every Saturday Night on CBS network. When she was in her mid-teens, she was appearing with country singers including Arnold, Hank Snow, The Browns and Jim Reeves.  She soon claimed she was tired of country music and began a rock and roll career.

Teen rock and roll star[edit]
The WRVA station announcer, Carl Stutz, wrote a song titled "Will You Willyum", and asked Martin to sing the song live on stage that Saturday night so that he could make a demo tape to send to his publisher in New York. A week later, Stutz called Martin to tell her that RCA Victor was interested in recording "Will You Willyum". As it happened, the publisher offered "Will You Willyum" to Steve Sholes, a producer at RCA Victor, and asked whether Sholes had an artist to record it. Apparently Sholes replied "Well, who's the girl doin' the demo?"
At age 15, Martin signed with RCA Victor in March 1956, just two months after Elvis Presley joined the label. She recorded "Will You Willyum" on March 8, 1956, backed by her own composition "Drugstore Rock 'n Roll".
The song became the biggest hit of her career, selling 750,000 records. Soon Martin was performing on American Bandstand, The Today Show and Tonight Starring Steve Allen. She also appeared on Jubilee USA, and the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville, Tennessee, becoming one of the younger performers to ever appear. Billboard named her Most Promising Female Vocalist that year.
Presley and RCA were so impressed with Martin's stage presence that they dubbed her the Female Elvis.[1][2] Presley sent a dozen red roses to her when she appeared at the RCA Victor convention in Miami, Florida. Colonel Tom Parker, Elvis' manager, offered to take over her management seeing the potential of a successful double "boy-girl" bill. Just before, due to his extremely taxing touring schedule, Elvis had collapsed on stage in New York due to exhaustion. Safeguarding the young Janis Martin from this, her parents decided to not accept Parker's offer, and instead go with the head of the Old Dominion shows. RCA chose Martin to tour as a member of the Jim Reeves show and continued recording rock and roll and country material that ended up being successful on both charts, including "My Boy Elvis", "Let's Elope Baby", her cover of Roy Orbison's song "Ooby Dooby", and "Love Me to Pieces".
On January 7, 1956, Martin eloped with her boyfriend, a paratrooper. She told her parents of her marriage only after her husband was safely shipped overseas in Germany. Her father tried to have it annulled because she was only 15 years old. Eventually, the matter was left, but Janis' mother ordered her to keep her marriage a secret to safeguard her career. In 1957, Janis went on a USO tour in Europe with Jim Reeves, Del Wood (a pianist famous for performing the song "Down Yonder"), The Browns, and Hank Locklin. Her husband got a 30-day leave and went on the road with her, which resulted in her getting pregnant with her son. Martin's teenage pregnancy caused RCA Victor to drop her in 1958. It was probably during this period that a 10" LP album titled Janis and Elvis was released in South Africa. This was recalled immediately upon request from the U.S. because it suggested the idea that the two performers were singing together. Although King Records and Decca Records were interested, she signed with the Belgian label Palette in 1960.

Later career[edit]
By 1960, Martin was on her second marriage, and her husband demanded she leave the music business. In the 1970s, she began performing again with her newly formed band, The Variations. In 1975, she was working for the Halifax, Virginia, Police Department when music historian Dennis West tracked her down. Edd Bayes, a record collector from Maryland, asked Dennis for her address, which Dennis gave to him. He then coaxed her to appear locally and tell her story in Goldmine magazine. Martin toured through Europe as part of the rockabilly revival there, and in 1979 Bayes convinced RCA to pull four Martin songs from their vault, which were then released on Dog Gone Records in 1977. Edd Bayes took one of the songs that had been recorded twice ("Love Me Love") at different tempos and added the 'cha cha' to the title. In the 1980s, the Bear Family label gathered Martin's complete record history with the compilation album The Female Elvis. Since the early 1980s Janis started performing again at Rockabilly shows through Europe and the US. One of her live shows was released on a CD called Here I Am on Hydra Records.  In 1995, Martin appeared on Rosie Flores's Rockabilly Filly album for HighTone Records.[3] Flores recorded an album with Martin six months before her death, but it was not released until September 18, 2012, as The Blanco Sessions by Cow Island Music.[4][5]

Death[edit]
Martin died from cancer on September 3, 2007, at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, North Carolina. Her only son, Kevin Parton, had died that January.

Honors[edit]
In 2010 the Library of Virginia posthumously honored Martin as a Virginia Women in History because of her musical career.[6]

Discography[edit]
Compilation albums[edit]

List of compilation albums, showing all relevant details


Title

Album details


Rockin' Rollin' Janis, Vol 1


Released: 1976
Label: Country Classics Library
Formats: Vinyl


Rockin' Rollin' Janis, Vol 2


Released: 1977
Label: Country Classics Library
Formats: Vinyl


The Female Elvis: The Complete Recordings


Released: 1987
Label: Bear Family
Formats: Vinyl, CD


Here I Am


Released: August 14, 2001
Label: Hydra
Formats: CD


The Blanco Sessions


Released: October 16, 2012
Label: Cow Island
Formats: Vinyl, CD


Singles[edit]

List of singles, with selected chart positions


Title

Year

Peakchartpositions

Album


US[7]


"Will You Willyum"

1956

35

—


"Ooby Dooby"

—

—


"My Boy Elvis"

—

—


"Barefoot Baby"

—

—


"Two Long Years"

1957

—

—


"Love and Kisses"

—

—


"All Right Baby"

—

—


"Cracker Jack"

1958

—

—


"Bang Bang"

—

—


"Hard Times Ahead"

1960

—

—


"Teen Street"

—

—


"I'm Movin' On"

1977

—

—


"Rockin' All Over the World"

1978

—

—


"—" denotes a recording that did not chart or was not released in that territory.


Notes[edit]


^ "Review spotlight on..." Billboard. April 7, 1956. p. 44. Retrieved March 29, 2022.

^ Sun Records also dubbed Jean Chapel the female Elvis Presley in 1956 when she began recording rockabilly songs including "I Won't Be Rocking Tonight".

^ "Rockabilly Filly Overview". AllMusic.com. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ "Janis Martin, 'The Female Elvis,' Returns". NPR Music. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ Flores, Rosie. "JANIS MARTIN " The Female Elvis", Final Recording Sessions". Kickstarter. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ "Virginia Women in History: Janis Martin". Library of Virginia. Retrieved 4 March 2015.

^ Whitburn, Joel (2010). The Billboard Book of Top 40 Hits. Billboard Books. pp. 519–22. ISBN 978-0-8230-8554-5.


References[edit]
Janis Martin Interview (1993). Swiped from Cat Tales No. 20, https://archive.today/20130412202336/http://elpresse.musicblog.fr/452065/janis-martin/
Aadland, Jonita (1998). "Janis Martin". In The Encyclopedia of Country Music. Paul Kingsbury, Editor. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 327–8.
Rockin' Country Style - A Discography of Country Rock & Roll and Related Records, 1951-1964. Compiled by Terry Gordon http://rcs-discography.com/rcs/artist.php?key=mart5200
External links[edit]
The Times Obituary for Janis Martin
Janis Martin at The Rockabilly Hall of Fame
Library of Virginia 2010 Virginia Women in History biography
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataArtistsMusicBrainz
vteVirginia Women in History2000–20092000
Ella Graham Agnew
Mary Julia Baldwin
Margaret Brent
Willa Cather
Jennie Dean
Sarah Lee Fain
Ellen Glasgow
Dolley Madison
Pocahontas
Clementina Rind
Lila Meade Valentine
Maggie L. Walker
2001
Rosa Dixon Bowser
Elizabeth Campbell
Thomasina Jordan
Elizabeth Keckley
Theresa Pollak
Sally Louisa Tompkins
Elizabeth Van Lew
Edith Wilson
2002
Rebecca Adamson
Janie Porter Barrett
Patsy Cline
Hannah Lee Corbin
Christine Darden
Lillian Ward McDaniel
Mary-Cooke Branch Munford
Jessie M. Rattley
2003
Nancy Astor
Pearl Bailey
Anna Whitehead Bodeker
Mary Ann Elliott
Annabelle Ravenscroft Gibson Jenkins
Frances Benjamin Johnston
Anne Dobie Peebles
Annie Bannister Spencer
2004
Grace Arents
Cockacoeske
Katie Couric
Anne Makemie Holden
Mary Draper Ingles
Sarah Garland Boyd Jones
Annie Snyder
Martha Washington
2005
Clara Leach Adams-Ender
Caitlyn Day
Bessie Blount Griffin
Mary Johnston
Barbara Johns Powell
Lee Smith
Mary Belvin Wade
2006
Kate Waller Barrett
Marie Majella Berg
John-Geline MacDonald Bowman
Benita Fitzgerald-Brown
Grace Hopper
Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek McClenahan
G. Anne Richardson
Mary Virginia Terhune
2007
Mary Willing Byrd
Maybelle Carter
Laura Lu Scherer Copenhaver
Mary Alice Franklin Hatwood Futrell
Mary Jeffery Galt
Sheila Crump Johnson
Opossunoquonuske
Camilla Williams
2008
Frances Culpeper Berkeley
Lucy Goode Brooks
Providencia Velazquez Gonzalez
Elizabeth B. Lacy
Sharyn McCrumb
P. Buckley Moss
Isabel Wood Rogers
Edith Turner
2009
Pauline Adams
Caroline Bradby Cook
Claudia Emerson
Drew Gilpin Faust
Joann Hess Grayson
Mary Randolph
Virginia Randolph
Mary Sue Terry
2010–20192010
Mollie Holmes Adams
Ethel Furman
Edythe C. Harrison
Janis Martin
Kate Mason Rowland
Jean Miller Skipwith
Queena Stovall
Marian Van Landingham
2011
Lucy Addison
Eleanor Bontecou
Emily White Fleming
Pearl Fu
Lillian Lincoln
Bessie Niemeyer Marshall
Felicia Warburg Rogan
Elizabeth Henry Campbell Russell
2012
Susie May Ames
Monica Beltran
Christiana Burdett Campbell
Betty Sams Christian
Elizabeth Peet McIntosh
Orelena Hawks Puckett
Judith Shatin
Alice Jackson Stuart
2013
Mary C. Alexander
Louise Archer
Elizabeth Ambler Brent Carrington
Ann Compton
JoAnn Falletta
Cleo Powell
Inez Pruitt
Eva Mae Fleming Scott
2014
Mary Berkeley Minor Blackford
Naomi Silverman Cohn
Elizabeth Ashburn Duke
Rachel Findlay
Christine Herter Kendall
Mildred Loving
Debbie Ryan
Stoner Winslett
2015
Nancy Melvina Caldwell
Nikki Giovanni
Ruth Coles Harris
Dorothy Shoemaker McDiarmid
Rebekah Dulaney Peterkin
Vivian Pinn
Elizabeth Bray Allen Smith Stith
Karenne Wood
2016
Flora D. Crittenden
Mary Elizabeth Nottingham Day
Sarah A. Gray
Edwilda Gustava Allen Isaac
Katherine Johnson
Ana Ines Barragan King
Betty Masters
Meyera Oberndorf
2017
Doris Crouse-Mays
Corazon Sandoval Foley
Nora Houston
Cynthia Eppes Hudson
Mary Virginia Jones
Louise Harrison McCraw
Undine Smith Moore
Martha Rollins
2018
Gaye Todd Adegbalola
Rita Dove
Isabella Gibbons
Marii Kyogoku Hasegawa
Kay Coles James
Barbara Kingsolver
Mary Aydelotte Rice Marshall
Temperance Flowerdew Yeardley
2019
Sharifa Alkhateeb
Queen Ann
Claudia Lane Dodson
India Hamilton
Georgeanna Seegar Jones
Ona Maria Judge
Lucy Randolph Mason
Kate Peters Sturgill
2020–20292020
Pauline Adams
Fannie Bayly King
Elizabeth Dabney Langhorne Lewis
Sophie G. Meredith
Josephine Mathes Norcom
Mary Elizabeth Pidgeon
Ora Brown Stokes
Lila Meade Valentine
Maggie Lena Mitchell Walker
2021
Krista N. Jones
Lerla G. Joseph
Lillie Louise Boone Lucas
Evelyn Reid Syphax




