American country musician  (1909–1978)


Maybelle CarterCarter in 1963Background informationBirth nameMaybelle AddingtonBorn(1909-05-10)May 10, 1909Nickelsville, Virginia, U.S.DiedOctober 23, 1978(1978-10-23) (aged 69)Hendersonville, Tennessee, U.S.GenresCountry folk, gospel, AmericanaInstrumentsVocalsguitarautoharpbanjoYears active1927–1978SpouseEzra Carter (m. 1926)Musical artist
"Mother" Maybelle Carter (born Maybelle Addington; May 10, 1909 – October 23, 1978) was an American country musician and "among the first" to use the Carter scratch,[1] with which she  "helped to turn the guitar into a lead instrument."[2][3] It was named after her. She was a member of the original Carter Family act from the late 1920s until the early 1940s and a member of the Carter Sisters and Mother Maybelle group.[4]


Biography[edit]
She was born Maybelle Addington on May 10, 1909, in Nickelsville, Virginia, the daughter of Margaret Elizabeth (née Kilgore; 1879–1960) and Hugh Jackson Addington (1877–1929).[5]
On March 13, 1926, Maybelle married Ezra Carter. They had three daughters, Helen, June, and Anita.[4]
She was a member of the Carter Family, formed in 1927 by her brother-in-law, A. P. Carter, who was married to her cousin Sara, also a part of the trio. The Carter Family was one of the first commercial rural country music groups. Maybelle helped create the group's unique sound with her innovative style of guitar playing, using her thumb to play the melody on the bass strings and her index finger to fill out the rhythm.[4] Her technique, sometimes known as the Carter Scratch, influenced the guitar's shift from rhythm to lead instrument.[6]
The Grand Ole Opry community of the early 1950s widely respected her, a matriarchal figure in country music circles who was popularly known as "Mother Maybelle." However, she was only in her forties.  Maybelle and her daughters toured from the 1940s through the 1960s as "The Carter Sisters and Mother Maybelle," but after the death of A. P. Carter in 1960, the group revived the name "The Carter Family." They frequently toured with Johnny Cash, her son-in-law, from 1968 on. The group performed regularly on Cash's weekly network variety show from 1969 to 1971. She briefly reunited with former Carter Family member Sara Carter during the 1960s folk music craze, with Sara singing lead and Maybelle providing harmony as before in their 1966 reunion album.[7]
Carter made occasional solo recordings during the 1960s and 1970s, usually full-length albums. Her final such work, a two-record set released on Columbia Records, placed on Billboard's best-selling country albums chart in 1973 when she was 64. Maybelle was also featured on The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band's 1972 recording Will the Circle Be Unbroken.
Carter died in 1978 after a few years of poor health and was interred next to her husband, Ezra, in Hendersonville Memory Gardens in Hendersonville, Tennessee. Two of their daughters – Helen and Anita – are buried nearby.[8]

Family tree[edit]

William KilgoreNancy Kilgore

Hugh J. AddingtonMargaret E. KilgoreNancy E. KilgoreWilliam S. Dougherty

Ezra CarterMaybelle CarterA.P CarterSara Carter

Helen CarterAnita CarterJune Carter CashJohnny CashGladys CarterJanette CarterJoseph Dougherty Carter

John Carter Cash

Musicianship[edit]
Guitar[edit]
According to statements made by Carter during a transcribed public performance, she began studying guitar at age 13 when she acquired an instrument.[9] She is often cited as a pioneering musician, being both an early female guitarist with national exposure and one of the first to use the guitar as a lead instrument in country music.[10][11]
Writers have identified at least three or four styles played by Maybelle Carter. She often tuned her guitar down, sometimes as many as five frets, but sometimes used a capo to increase the instrument's range.[9][12] Her most famous and widely recorded style is sometimes called "the Carter Scratch," or "thumb-lead style." This technique involved playing a melody on the instrument's three bass strings while strumming the three treble strings for rhythm. She used thumb and finger picks while playing.[13]
Another style, later popularized by other musicians, was essentially the reverse of the thumb-lead style. In this style, Carter fingerpicked a melody on the three treble strings while brushing a rhythm on the bass strings with her thumb. It is often said that she first saw this style played by African American musician Lesley Riddle. A third style of Carter's guitar playing involved rapid flatpicking in a country blues rhythm. Her most obscure style was utilized on a few recordings by the Original Carter Family in the 1920s and early 1930s.  It may be described as a Hawaiian-influenced slide technique that sometimes sounded like a modern dobro. Finally, if other musicians were playing a lead instrument, Maybelle would often strum chords on the guitar to accompany them.[11][14][15] Maybelle once filled in for Jimmie Rodgers during a recording session, perfectly mimicking his guitar playing style, in 1932. Rodgers was ill with tuberculosis at that time and had waning stamina during the session.[16]
Carter recorded her signature guitar piece, "Wildwood Flower," on numerous occasions, beginning with the original 1928 version. "The Cannon Ball," recorded with the Original Carter Family in 1930, illustrates Carter's fingerpicking style with thumb/bass fill. Her final recording in the slide guitar style was "My Old Cottage Home" in 1931. "Coal Miner's Blues," recorded for Decca, is an excellent flatpicking illustration.[17][12]
Guitar recordings she made with the Carter Sisters: "Fourteen Karat Nothing," "I'm Working on a Building," "Take Good Care of Him" — a rapid-tempo re-recording of "Waves on the Sea" — as well as a contemporary-sounding revision of "I'll Be All Smiles Tonight."[18]
Solo guitar recordings: "Cumberland Gap," "Victory Rag," "Red Wing," and "Sweet Allie Lee."[19]

Autoharp[edit]
The autoharp was relatively obscure in the earliest days of recorded country music. The Original Carter Family often used the instrument for rhythm. Still, it was played by Maybelle Carter's cousin and bandmate, Sara Carter, in her intricate style.[15]  Maybelle Carter is widely credited with the autoharp's popularity and it is still played in country and roots music, .[20]  The autoharp was Maybelle's first instrument. She began tinkering with it as early as the age of four but did not turn a serious focus toward the instrument until around 1940.[21]
Traditionally the autoharp was strummed as a rhythm instrument.[22]  Maybelle developed (alone or perhaps independently of other musicians who did the same) a "pinch and pluck" technique that forms the basis of most modern autoharp playing styles.[23]  This technique allows for playing melodic lead notes on the instrument.  Carter's style later evolved to add a fill-in rhythm, similar to her guitar technique.  While playing the autoharp, Maybelle would often press cord bars between notes. The effect was a note slurring, a sound similar to  a guitar hammer-on.  It has been said that pianist Floyd Cramer was especially interested in these embellishments to Maybelle's playing and that they helped to shape his piano technique.[22][24]
As she began to feature the autoharp more and more in concerts and radio work, Carter became frustrated with trying to steady the instrument close enough to a microphone often shared by others.  She utilized tables and music stands at first but later got the idea of holding the instrument upside down, across her chest, and playing along what was essentially the head of the harp (nearest the tuning pegs). Before then, musicians played below the cord bars at the opposite end. She discovered this technique allowed more space for her complicated playing style and produced a sweeter tone. During at least one public performance, Maybelle stated that autoharps were manufactured differently to accommodate the playing style she popularized.[9][22][25]
Maybelle Carter taught at least one workshop on autoharp playing in conjunction with her various appearances at Newport Folk Festivals.[26]  A moderator at the workshop noted that Maybelle should be credited with the first fingerpicked autoharp solo to be captured on commercial recording, referencing "Fair and Tender Ladies" recorded by the Carter Sisters and Mother Maybelle on Columbia Records about 1950.[27]  She often played the autoharp in that group.  Other examples include a simplistic but moving solo she added to "Mountain Lady" on the family's final album before her death.  In addition to recordings with the Carter Sisters, which featured her autoharp playing, Maybelle Carter often featured the instrument in her solo work.  On her earliest solo album, she offered an old fiddle tune, "Liberty," for the session.[27][28]  Later, Smash Records issued an album of autoharp solos by Maybelle Carter, which included a few backing musicians and subtle background vocals by the Stephen Scott Singers.  "Green Valley Waltz" and "Barbara Allen" were included along with ten other titles.  The bulk of her final solo album (from 1973) was composed of autoharp solos in which a whole band of studio musicians accompanied her.[28][19]
Mother Maybelle frequently found studio work with other artists to capture the fresh sound she had created.  She recorded at least two songs with Johnnie & Jack and at least two with the Wilburn Brothers.  The latter collaboration registered a top-ten hit (to which Maybelle Carter was not credited), "Go Away with Me."  She also played autoharp on Carl Smith's Sunday Down South gospel album.  A similar pairing with Flatt & Scruggs led to the Songs of the Famous Carter Family album, on which Maybelle contributed mostly through her autoharp playing.  In the 1960s, Maybelle helped record an instructional record sold with an autoharp through a mail-order chain store.  She contributed a demonstration of the instrument and a small amount of dialogue.[19][28]

Singing[edit]
Original Carter Family[edit]
The moniker "Original Carter Family" predates the original group's breakup by several years, being used during  their radio programs on Mexican border stations.  Other groups used the name "Carter Family," so adding "Original" helped distinguish the trio.  Eventually, the name "Original Carter Family" came to be used to differentiate between the original trio, formed in the 1920s, and later versions of the group, particularly Maybelle and her daughters.[15]  Maybelle Carter worked with the Original Carter Family from about 1926 until about 1943 (when the group officially disbanded) on personal appearances, radio shows, and commercial recordings.[15]  The group reunited for a performance in May 1953 at the first Jimmie Rodgers Memorial Festival.  They sang two songs, with A. P. Carter serving as emcee for their portion of the program.  The performance was captured on a home movie camera, but the film deteriorated in storage.  An audio recording of the performance does survive.[29]  Maybelle sang on two or three of the first six songs recorded by the family in 1927.  Initially, her vocal contributions to the group were mostly subdued, but she gradually took on a more prominent role.  It became routine for her to harmonize with the whole trio.  She and Sara Carter frequently sang duets without A. P.
In 1937 the two recorded a duet on "Hello Stranger," which featured both voices equally in an unusual call-and-response vocal arrangement.  Maybelle sang opening phrases for all verses on the group's 1940 recording of "I'll Never Forsake You."  During their final commercial session, Maybelle's voice was slightly dominant to Sara's on selections such as "Why Do You Cry Little Darling," "You Tied a Love Knot in My Heart," and "You're Gonna Be Sorry You Let Me Down."  She rarely sing lead for the group on radio shows but sometimes played and sang solos.  In the mid-1960s through the early 1970s, Maybelle and Sara would periodically reunite for personal appearances and television work, recording an album for Columbia during this time as well.[19][17][15]

Carter Sisters and Mother Maybelle[edit]
Following A. P. Carter's death in 1960, the group previously known as the "Carter Sisters and Mother Maybelle" assumed "Carter Family" as their official band name.[15]  Maybelle Carter performed with this group, mostly with her three daughters but in various other versions of the group as well, from the late 1930s and early 1940s almost until she died in 1978.  They toured, did many radio programs and TV appearances, and made several commercial recordings together.[15]  As the Carter Sisters & Mother Maybelle, the group made their first commercial recordings for RCA Victor in 1949.  The sales were better than average but produced no major hits.  Those recordings were among the first to be issued in the new 45-rpm single format.
Maybelle sang lead on a number of the RCA recordings, including "My Darling's Home at Last," "Why Do You Weep Dear Willow," "Walk a Little Closer," "Don't Wait," and "I've Got a Home Up in Glory."  One of the more popular recordings of that era to feature Maybelle was "Someone's Last Day;" on a radio transcription, the emcee notes that "she gets more requests for it than any of them."[19] By the early 1950s, the group changed labels to Columbia.  In that era, Maybelle frequently sang a verse on a song with her daughters singing others.  Likely the most popular recording from that era was a single featuring "Fair and Tender Ladies" on one side and "Foggy Mountain Top" on the other.[30]
In the early 1960s, the group featuring Maybelle and her daughters (now called simply the "Carter Family") moved to the Liberty label, where they had an album and at least one single released.  Shortly after, they returned to Columbia, where the group remained under contract throughout Maybelle's life.  It was on Columbia that almost all the group's significantly successful discs were released.  Maybelle's role as a vocal soloist was diminished during this time, but she did a lot of harmony singing on those recordings. She would periodically sing whole songs or verses within songs.  Examples include "Homestead on the Farm," on the group's The Country Album, "Picture on the Wall," from the Three Generations collection, and an enduring rendition of "Will the Circle be Unbroken" on their Keep on the Sunny Side album.[19]

Solo career[edit]
The album Mother Maybelle Carter on the Briar label was the first commercial recording to feature Maybelle as a headliner .  It was recorded in 1959 but was not released until a couple of years later.[31]  Maybelle recruited the help of her daughters Helen and Anita as backing vocalists.  Group members often utilized other family members on their various solo recordings.  Some singles were released from the album, and a slightly edited version of the album was later released under the title Queen of the Autoharp on the Kapp label.  That transaction offered a more robust distribution.  Maybelle sang several interesting selections, including "Sweeter than the Flowers" and "My Native Home."  Someone suggested adding the Carter Scratch to a reverberating electric guitar on some of the tracks.  The strange effect was a  "Carter Family beach music" sound.  Maybelle filled out the album with other vocal performances and some instrumentals.[19][28][15]
In the early to mid-1960s, Maybelle Carter's solo work was recorded by Mercury Records and released on its subsidiary labels Smash and Cumberland.  There were three albums and at least one non-album single.  Representative solo vocals from those recordings include "Faded Coat of Blue," "Flowers Blooming in the Wildwood," and "Nobody's Darling on Earth."  A single "Strumming My Guitaro" also featured Maybelle's work on a new autoharp-like instrument of the same name.  Finally, "Foggy Mountain Top," an album cut, stands out as being the only commercial recording Maybelle sang with her banjo accompaniment.[19][18]
By the late 1960s, Maybelle Carter and the entire family had re-signed with Columbia records.  Shortly after, the label released another solo album on Maybelle, Living Legend.  Vocal examples from that album include "Give Me Your Love and I'll Give You Mine," "We All Miss You Joe," and "A Letter from Home,"  One single from the album I Told them What You Were Fighting For was a small chart hit.[19][18][15]  A double album of instrumentals, discussed above, was also released.

Collaborations with other artists[edit]
As part of the Carter Family and a soloist, Maybelle often sang and/or played as a guest on other artists' recordings.  Many times she went uncredited on the label.  Likely her most commercially successful venture in this realm was her collaboration on the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band's album Will the Circle Be Unbroken from the early 1970s.  Maybelle contributed dialogue during the sessions.  She also sang lead and played on "Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes" and "Wildwood Flower."  On the album's title track, she played throughout the song and sang the first solo verse.  She received a Grammy nomination and her only gold record for the performances.  The album was a commercial success, peaking at number 4 on the country charts, and making a respectable showing on the pop charts.  It was eventually certified at platinum sales.  Maybelle and Johnny Cash released a top 40 single in 1973, "Pick the Wildwood Flower," which featured her guitar playing and brief dialogue.  The single's B side, "Diamonds in the Rough," was a vocal duet accompanied by Maybelle's guitar playing.[28][15]

Awards, recognition, and legacy[edit]
Her first major award from an organized music body came in 1966 when she was presented with a trophy that read "Mother of Country Music."[32]
Maybelle Carter was elected with the Original Carter Family to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1970.  She and Sara Carter became the first female performers to be inducted (simultaneously) into the institution.[33][15]

Carter's Gibson guitar, accompanied by a photograph of Carter at the Country Music Hall of Fame
Maybelle Carter was nominated at the 15th Annual Grammy Awards (1972) in the category of Best Country Vocal Performance by a Duo or Group for her collaboration on the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band album "Will the Circle Be Unbroken."[34]
The Carter Family (Maybelle, Helen, June, and Anita) received the "Favorite Country Group" trophy from the American Music Awards in 1973.  The following year Maybelle was individually honored with the first Tex Ritter Award by the International Fan Club Organization at Fan Fair in Nashville, TN.[35][15]
Following Maybelle Carter's death, the CBS network aired a television special called "The Unbroken Circle: A Tribute to Maybelle Carter" in 1979. The following year she and her daughters were given the "Gospel Act of the Year" by the Music City News Cover Awards Show.  Maybelle received the "Acoustic Pioneer Award" from Frets Magazine in 1986.[33]
By 1992 Carter was inducted into the Autoharp Hall of Fame.[33][25]
In 1993, her image appeared on a U.S. postage stamp honoring the Carter Family. She would rank No. 8 in CMT's 40 Greatest Women of Country Music in 2002. In 2005, she was portrayed by Sandra Ellis Lafferty in the Johnny Cash biographical film Walk the Line.  Actress Frances Conroy portrayed her in the 2013 TV Movie "Ring of Fire."[36]  Carter has also been depicted in musicals such as "Keep on the Sunny Side" and "Wildwood Flowers: The June Carter Story" by actresses and singers such as Joy Lynn White, Gina Stewart, and Teresa Williams.[37]
She was the subject of her granddaughter Carlene Carter's 1990 song "Me and the Wildwood Rose."  Her death was the subject of Johnny Cash's song "Tears in the Holston River."  Numerous other tribute songs have been written and recorded about Maybelle Carter.[19]
The Original Carter Family (with Maybelle) were inducted into the International Bluegrass Association's Hall of Honor in 2001[38] and were -given a Lifetime Achievement Grammy Award in 2005.[39]
In 2007 Carter was honored as one of the Library of Virginia's "Virginia Women in History" for her musical career.[40]
In 2010, Lipscomb University in Nashville named the stage in Collins Alumni Auditorium after her.
The A. P. and Sara Carter House, A. P. Carter Homeplace, A. P. Carter Store, Maybelle and Ezra Carter House, and Mt. Vernon Methodist Church are listed on the National Register of Historic Places as components of the Carter Family Thematic Resource.[41][42]
Carter was named the 17th greatest guitarist of all time by Rolling Stone in 2023.[43]

Partial discography[edit]
Further information: Carter Family § Selected discography
Singles[edit]


Year
Title
Peak Position
Label & Album


1960
Gold Watch & Chain (b/w Liberty Dance)
_
Top Rank  (Mother Maybelle Carter: Briar 101)


1961
Wildwood Flower (b/w Liberty Dance)
_
Briar   (Mother Maybelle Carter: Briar 101)


1963
Suns Gonna Shine in My Backdoor Someday (b/w Bells of St. Mary's)
_
Briar     (Mother Maybelle Carter: Briar 101)


1964
Strumming My Guitaro (b/w Sail Away Ladies)
_
Smash; non-album single


1966
I Told Them What You're Fighting For (b/w San Antonio Rose)
97
Columbia     (A Living Legend)


1974
Picture on the Wall (b/w Sweet Memories by Anita Carter)
_
Columbia     (The Carter Family: Three Generations)

Albums[edit]


Year
Album
US Country
Label
Notes


1961
Mother Maybelle Carter
_
Briar
Edited and issued by Kapp (1962) as Queen of the Autoharp


1962
Mother Maybelle Carter & her Autoharp Plays Famous Folk Songs
_
Smash
with Stephen Scott Singers


1963
Pickin' & Singin'
_
Smash



1965
Mother Maybelle Carter Sings Carter Family Favorites
_
Cumberland
subsidiary label of Mercury Records


1966
A Living Legend
_
Columbia



1966
An Historic Reunion
_
Columbia
with Sara Carter


1973
Mother Maybelle Carter
44
Columbia
double record album (a third album of interviews was simultaneously issued to radio stations)


1960s ??
Mother Maybelle Carter and Dixie Darling
_
Ambassador and Mountain Dew
These two albums, varying only slightly in song selections, are both reissues of Mercury material previously released on Smash & Cumberland labels


1976
Mother Maybelle Carter
_
Pickwick/Hilltop
Reissue of Mercury/Smash/Cumberland material from previous albums


1997
Wildwood Pickin'
_
Vanguard
Contains material from live concert appearances and workshops at Newport Folk Festivals

Guest singles[edit]


Year
Title, Label & Artist
Peak Position
Notes


1936
Why There's a Tear in my Eye (Bluebird) Jimmy Rodgers & Sara Carter (recorded 1931)

plays guitar; uncredited


1937
Wonderful City (Bluebird) Jimmy Rodgers & Sara Carter (recorded 1931)

plays guitar; uncredited


1956
Go Away with Me (Decca) Wilburn Brothers
6
plays autoharp; uncredited


1957
Nothing at All (Decca) Wilburn Brothers
_
plays autoharp; uncredited; later issued on compilation album


1962
T For Texas (Monument) Grandpa Jones
5
plays autoharp; vocalist; with Helen Carter guitar & vocals; uncredited


1973
Pick the Wildwood Flower (b/w Diamonds in the Rough) Johnny Cash with Maybelle Carter
34
plays guitar with dialogue on A side; plays guitar & vocal duet on B side

Guest albums[edit]


Year
Album Title & Primary Artist
Peak Position
Label
Notes


1956
Softly and Tenderly (Carl Smith with the Carter Sisters & Mother Maybelle)
_
Columbia



1957
Sunday Down South (Carl Smith)
_
Columbia
Credited as session musician; plays autoharp


1961
Songs of the Famous Carter Family (Flatt & Scruggs)
_
Columbia
Credited as "Featuring Mother Maybelle Carter"; plays autoharp on all songs; guitar on one song


1962
Carefree Moments (Wilburn Brothers)
_
Vocalion
Musician (autoharp) on one song


1963
Ring of fire:  Best of Johnny Cash (Johnny Cash)
1
Columbia
Musician (autoharp); Carter Family vocals; Gold certification


1963
Christmas Spirit (Johnny Cash)
7 (holiday albums)
Columbia
Musician (autoharp)


1963
Blood, Sweat & Tears (Johnny Cash)
13
Columbia
Musician (autoharp); Carter Family vocals


1963
Yodeling Hits (Grandpa Jones)
_
Monument
Musician (autoharp); Helen Carter guitar & vocals by both


1964
Old Time Music at Newport (Recorded Live at the Newport Folk Festival 1963)  Various Artists
_
Vanguard
Sings & Plays "Storms are on the Ocean"


1964
I Walk the Line (Johnny Cash)
1
Columbia
Carter Family vocals; Gold certification


1964
Bitter Tears (Johnny Cash)
2
Columbia
Carter Family vocals


1964
Ballads of the True West (Johnny Cash)
1
Columbia
Musician (autoharp); Carter Family vocals


1966
Everybody Loves a Nut (Johnny Cash)
5
Columbia
Carter Family vocals


1966
Happiness is You (Johnny Cash)
10
Columbia
Musician (autoharp); Carter Family vocals


1970
Hello I'm Johnny Cash (Johnny Cash)
1
Columbia
Carter Family vocals; Gold certification


1970
On the Road (Johnny Horton)
-
Columbia
Carter Family added vocals on some tracks


1972
Thing Called Love (Johnny Cash)
2
Columbia
Carter Family vocals


1972
Will the Circle be Unbroken (Nitty Gritty Dirt Band and others)
4
United Artists
Credited as "Featuring Mother Maybelle Carter...." (other artists listed); Sings & Plays on four titles; Gold & Platinum
certifications



1972
Any Old Way the Wind Blows (Johnny Cash)
5
Columbia
Carter Family vocals


1972
Land of Many Churches (Merle Haggard)
15
Capitol
Carter Family vocals


1974
Junkie & the Juicehead Minus Me (Johnny Cash)
48
Columbia
Carter Family vocals


1975
Country Boots (Boots Randolph)
30
Monument
Musician (autoharp); Helen Carter guitar & vocals by both (with Anita Carter) on two songs


1977
Last Gunfighter Ballad (Johnny Cash)
29
Columbia
Carter Family vocals

References[edit]


^ Susan Ware, Stacy Braukman (2005). Notable American Women: A Biographical Dictionary, 5, Completing the Twentieth Century, p.105. ISBN 0-674-01488-X.

^ Holly George-Warren, Laura Levine (2006). Honky-Tonk Heroes and Hillbilly Angels: The Pioneers of Country and Western Music, p.4.

^ Olson, Ted. "Carter, Maybelle (1909–1978)". Encyclopedia Virginia. Retrieved May 4, 2016.

^ a b c Zwonitzer, Mark; Hirshberg, Charles (2004). Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone?: The Carter Family & Their Legacy in American Music. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-7432-4382-X.

^ Cash, John Carter. Anchored in Love: An Intimate Portrait of June Carter Cash (Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson Publishers, 2007), 10.

^ George-Warren, Holly (1997). "Hillbilly Fillies: The Trailblazers of C&W" quoted in Reddington, Helen (2007). The Lost Women of Rock Music, p.179. ISBN 0-7546-5773-6.

^ Olson, Ted. "Maybelle Carter (1909–1978)". Encyclopedia Virginia. Retrieved March 31, 2023.

^ Amos, Edward (July 12, 2002). Gravesites of Southern Musicians: A Guide to Over 300 Jazz, Blues, Country and Rock Performers' Burial Places. McFarland. ISBN 9780786412709 – via Google Books.

^ a b c Carter, M., et al., (1975) Transcription of Smithsonian Institution Concert

^ Kyle, D. (nd). The First Guitar of Country Music. Vintage Guitar Magazine

^ a b Bunch, W. (2009). Mother Maybelle Carter Lauded as a True Trailblazer. Timesnews.net

^ a b Sokolow, F. (nd). The Carter Family Collection: 32 Songs from the Royal Family of Country Music. Hal-Leonard Corporation

^ Griffin, Sid; Thompson, Eric (2005). Bluegrass guitar : know the players, play the music. San Francisco, CA: Backbeat Books. p. 22. ISBN 0-87930-870-2. OCLC 61176882.

^ Seeger, M. & Carter, J. (2000). Guitary Styles of the Carter Family. (printed insert booklet) Homespunvideo

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l 2

^ Wheeler, B. E. (1976). Mother Maybelle Carter: Her Career Spans Half a Century.

^ a b Wolfe, C. (2000). The Carter Family: In the Shadow of Clinch Mountain. Bear Family Records, Germany.

^ a b c Sunny Side Sentinel: Official Publication for the Carter Family, discography Issue (1980).

^ a b c d e f g h i j Various CD, album and single liner notes, labels and credits.

^ Green, D. (1976). Sara & Maybelle Together at Maces Springs.  Country News

^ Fergerson, M. (1954). The Carter Sisters Led by Mother Maybelle. unknown publisher

^ a b c Hickey, N. (1971). His Mother-in-Law is a Legend. TV Guide

^ Carter Family Fan Club Journal.(1994)

^ Carter, M., et al. (1973). Mother Maybelle Carter Interview. Columbia Records

^ a b Carter Family Fan Club Journal. (1994)

^ Carter Family Fan Club News. (2011)

^ a b Autoharp Workshop with Mike Seeger in Carter, M. (1997). Wildwood Pickin'. Vanguard. [sound recording]

^ a b c d e Sunny Side Sentinel: Official Publication for the Carter Family, discography Issue

^ Carter Family Fan Club News (2010)

^ Interview with Anita Carter (date?) from Campbell, A. Yesteryear in Nashville

^ Transcription of Ash Grove Concerts by Maybelle Carter (1963). Ash Grove, Hollywood CA

^ Anonymous. (1966). DJ Convention Ends on Happy Note. Music City News, 4(5)

^ a b c Anonymous. (1993). Historic Dates in the Career of the Carter Family. Published by Carter Family Fan Club

^ "Mother Maybelle Carter". grammy.com. November 23, 2020. Retrieved October 23, 2021.

^ Cash, J. C. (1979). Among My Klediments. Zondervan Publishing House

^ Ring of Fire. (2013). IMDb.com

^ Carter Family Fan Club News. (2002; 2005; 2007)

^ Carter Family Fan Club News. (2001)

^ Carter Family Fan Club. (2006)

^ "Virginia Women in History: Maybelle Addington Carter (1909-1978), Scott County, Musician". Library of Virginia. Retrieved March 4, 2015.

^ "National Register Information System". National Register of Historic Places. National Park Service. July 9, 2010.

^ Carter Family TR

^ "The 250 Greatest Guitarists of All Time". Rolling Stone. October 13, 2023. Retrieved October 14, 2023.


Sources[edit]
Wolfe, Charles. (1998). "Carter Family". In The Encyclopedia of Country Music. Paul Kingsbury, Editor. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 84–85.
Zwonitzer, Mark with Charles Hirshberg. (2002). Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone?: The Carter Family and Their Legacy in American Music. New York: Simon & Schuster.
External links[edit]
Maybelle Carter recordings at the Discography of American Historical Recordings.
Maybelle Carter discography at Discogs
Maybelle Carter at IMDb
vteCarter Family
A. P. Carter
Sara Carter
Maybelle Carter
Helen Carter
Anita Carter
June Carter Cash
Ezra Carter
Janette Carter
Joe Carter
John Carter Cash
Laura Cash
Compilation albums
Anchored in Love (1993)
My Clinch Mountain Home (1993)
When the Roses Bloom in Dixieland (1995)
Worried Man Blues (1995)
Sunshine in the Shadows (1997)
Give Me the Roses While I Live (1997)
Gold Watch and Chain (1998)
Last Sessions (1998)
Longing for Old Virginia (1998)
Songs
"Can the Circle Be Unbroken (By and By)"
"Engine One-Forty-Three"
"Keep on the Sunny Side"
"I'm Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes"
"I'm Working on a Building"
"No Depression in Heaven"
"Single Girl, Married Girl"
"Wabash Cannonball"
"When I'm Gone"
"Wildwood Flower"
"Worried Man Blues"
Related albums
A Living Legend (1965)
The Unbroken Circle: The Musical Heritage of the Carter Family (2004)
Anchored in Love: A Tribute to June Carter Cash (2007)
Related places
A. P. and Sara Carter House
A. P. Carter Homeplace
A. P. Carter Store
Maybelle and Ezra Carter House
Mt. Vernon Methodist Church
Hendersonville Memory Gardens
Related musical acts
Carlene Carter
Mother Maybelle & the Carter Sisters
Johnny Cash
Rosanne Cash
Rosie Nix Adams
Chet Atkins
Robbie Harden
Carter Family III
Dale Jett
Biopics
Walk the Line
Ring of Fire
Related
Discography
Carter Family Fold
Carter Family picking
The Johnny Cash Show
House of Cash
Sunny Side of Life (1985 documentary)

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

vteVirginia Women in History2000–20092000
Ella Graham Agnew
Mary Julia Baldwin
Margaret Brent
Willa Cather
Jennie Dean
Sarah Lee Fain
Ellen Glasgow
Dolley Madison
Pocahontas
Clementina Rind
Lila Meade Valentine
Maggie L. Walker
2001
Rosa Dixon Bowser
Elizabeth Campbell
Thomasina Jordan
Elizabeth Keckley
Theresa Pollak
Sally Louisa Tompkins
Elizabeth Van Lew
Edith Wilson
2002
Rebecca Adamson
Janie Porter Barrett
Patsy Cline
Hannah Lee Corbin
Christine Darden
Lillian Ward McDaniel
Mary-Cooke Branch Munford
Jessie M. Rattley
2003
Nancy Astor
Pearl Bailey
Anna Whitehead Bodeker
Mary Ann Elliott
Annabelle Ravenscroft Gibson Jenkins
Frances Benjamin Johnston
Anne Dobie Peebles
Annie Bannister Spencer
2004
Grace Arents
Cockacoeske
Katie Couric
Anne Makemie Holden
Mary Draper Ingles
Sarah Garland Boyd Jones
Annie Snyder
Martha Washington
2005
Clara Leach Adams-Ender
Caitlyn Day
Bessie Blount Griffin
Mary Johnston
Barbara Johns Powell
Lee Smith
Mary Belvin Wade
2006
Kate Waller Barrett
Marie Majella Berg
John-Geline MacDonald Bowman
Benita Fitzgerald-Brown
Grace Hopper
Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek McClenahan
G. Anne Richardson
Mary Virginia Terhune
2007
Mary Willing Byrd
Maybelle Carter
Laura Lu Scherer Copenhaver
Mary Alice Franklin Hatwood Futrell
Mary Jeffery Galt
Sheila Crump Johnson
Opossunoquonuske
Camilla Williams
2008
Frances Culpeper Berkeley
Lucy Goode Brooks
Providencia Velazquez Gonzalez
Elizabeth B. Lacy
Sharyn McCrumb
P. Buckley Moss
Isabel Wood Rogers
Edith Turner
2009
Pauline Adams
Caroline Bradby Cook
Claudia Emerson
Drew Gilpin Faust
Joann Hess Grayson
Mary Randolph
Virginia Randolph
Mary Sue Terry
2010–20192010
Mollie Holmes Adams
Ethel Furman
Edythe C. Harrison
Janis Martin
Kate Mason Rowland
Jean Miller Skipwith
Queena Stovall
Marian Van Landingham
2011
Lucy Addison
Eleanor Bontecou
Emily White Fleming
Pearl Fu
Lillian Lincoln
Bessie Niemeyer Marshall
Felicia Warburg Rogan
Elizabeth Henry Campbell Russell
2012
Susie May Ames
Monica Beltran
Christiana Burdett Campbell
Betty Sams Christian
Elizabeth Peet McIntosh
Orelena Hawks Puckett
Judith Shatin
Alice Jackson Stuart
2013
Mary C. Alexander
Louise Archer
Elizabeth Ambler Brent Carrington
Ann Compton
JoAnn Falletta
Cleo Powell
Inez Pruitt
Eva Mae Fleming Scott
2014
Mary Berkeley Minor Blackford
Naomi Silverman Cohn
Elizabeth Ashburn Duke
Rachel Findlay
Christine Herter Kendall
Mildred Loving
Debbie Ryan
Stoner Winslett
2015
Nancy Melvina Caldwell
Nikki Giovanni
Ruth Coles Harris
Dorothy Shoemaker McDiarmid
Rebekah Dulaney Peterkin
Vivian Pinn
Elizabeth Bray Allen Smith Stith
Karenne Wood
2016
Flora D. Crittenden
Mary Elizabeth Nottingham Day
Sarah A. Gray
Edwilda Gustava Allen Isaac
Katherine Johnson
Ana Ines Barragan King
Betty Masters
Meyera Oberndorf
2017
Doris Crouse-Mays
Corazon Sandoval Foley
Nora Houston
Cynthia Eppes Hudson
Mary Virginia Jones
Louise Harrison McCraw
Undine Smith Moore
Martha Rollins
2018
Gaye Todd Adegbalola
Rita Dove
Isabella Gibbons
Marii Kyogoku Hasegawa
Kay Coles James
Barbara Kingsolver
Mary Aydelotte Rice Marshall
Temperance Flowerdew Yeardley
2019
Sharifa Alkhateeb
Queen Ann
Claudia Lane Dodson
India Hamilton
Georgeanna Seegar Jones
Ona Maria Judge
Lucy Randolph Mason
Kate Peters Sturgill
2020–20292020
Pauline Adams
Fannie Bayly King
Elizabeth Dabney Langhorne Lewis
Sophie G. Meredith
Josephine Mathes Norcom
Mary Elizabeth Pidgeon
Ora Brown Stokes
Lila Meade Valentine
Maggie Lena Mitchell Walker
2021
Krista N. Jones
Lerla G. Joseph
Lillie Louise Boone Lucas
Evelyn Reid Syphax

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataNorwayArtistsMusicBrainzDiscography of American Historical RecordingsOtherSNAC



