American actor, musician and author
Actor/entertainer Randall Franks (right), "Officer Randy Goode" from TV's In the Heat of the Night, and his mentor the late Grand Ole Opry star Jesse McReynolds, who is featured in Franks's book "Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters" visit backstage at the Grand Ole Opry before performing at the Grand Ole Opry in 2015. (Randall Franks Media: http://randallfranks.com
Randall Franks is an American entertainer known for his work as a film and television actor, author, and bluegrass singer and musician.[1] 
He plays various instruments including the fiddle, mandolin, guitar, and mountain dulcimer. Franks has received multiple nominations and awards throughout his career, including nominations for Inspirational Vocalist and Musician of the Year at the Josie Music Awards at the Grand Ole Opry House 2023 and 2024.[2][3] He has been inducted into several halls of fame, such as the Tri-State Gospel Music Hall of Fame (2022),[4]  America's Old Time Country Music Hall of Fame (2019),[5] and the Independent Country Music Hall of Fame (2013).[6] The International Bluegrass Music Museum & Hall of Fame recognized Franks as a Bluegrass Legend in 2010.[7] He has also received accolades from various regional organizations, including the Atlanta Country Music Hall of Fame Induction,[8] Carolinas Country, Bluegrass and Gospel Hall of Fame Legend Award,[9] Catoosa County, Georgia, which designated him as the "Appalachian Ambassador of the Fiddle" in 2004,[10] 
and was inducted into the Chamber Business Person Hall of Fame [11] In 2020, Franks was selected as the inaugural recipient of the AirPlay Direct Evolution Grant.[12]


Ancestry[edit]
Official Presidential portrait of Thomas Jefferson (by Rembrandt Peale, 1800)(cropped)
The Appalachian is related to several prominent figures in American and European history. He is a cousin of American founding fathers George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, and a kinsman to John Adams, James Madison and James Monroe, all of whom served as presidents of the United States. Of the 56 signatories of the United States Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, 48 were Franks' family members.[13]
Franks' lineage includes descent from various European royal houses, such as the English House of Tudor and Plantagenet dynasties, French Capetian Dynasty, Russian Rurik Dynasty and the Scottish House of Bruce and House of Stuart. His grandfathers include are King Edward III of England, King James IV and Robert the Bruce of Scotland and King Philip IV of France. King Henry VIII Of England was his uncle.[14][15]

TV and Movies[edit]
The American actor and filmmaker has appeared in various film and television productions since the 1980s. He comes from a family with deep roots in the film and television industry, with relatives including Cecil B. DeMille, Buster Keaton, John Wayne, Lucille Ball, Jimmy Stewart, Andy Griffith, James Dean, Katharine Hepburn and Bing Crosby.[16]
Franks began his career as a youth, performing on variety shows as a musician and singer. His first film role was a singing part in the 1988 movie "Desperate for Love."[17]   He subsequently appeared in minor roles in productions such as "Blind Side" (1988) and "No Holds Barred" (1989).[18][19]

Franks's breakthrough role came with the television series "In the Heat of the Night" (1988-1993), where he played Officer Randy Goode.[20]  During his tenure, the show received critical recognition, including NAACP Image Awards for Outstanding Drama Series in 1992 and 1993,[21][22]   and Golden Globe nominations for Best Television Drama in 1990 and 1991.[23][24] *Official website
After a hiatus from film and dramatic television (2001-2009), Franks returned to acting in 2009 as attorney Alvin Potter in Robert Townsend's Musical Theater of Hope.[25]
Other notable film roles include:

Dr. J.A. Anderson in "The Crickets Dance" (2020) [26] winning eleven film festival awards including the Best Ensemble Cast and Best Feature Film [27]
Marv Headly in "Broken" (2015) starring with Soren Fulton
Edgar Albert in "The Solomon Bunch" (2013) [28]
Pastor John Keebley in "Lukewarm" (2012) starring with John Schneider, Nicole Gale Anderson, Bill Cobbs, Jeremy Jones and Jenna Von Oy.[29]
Principal Nate Foster in "Decision" (2011) starring with Natalie Grant and Billy Dean[30]
Starring role as Todd with Stella Parton in the sci-fi thriller Phoenix Falling[31]
Starring role as Captain Morgan Fairhope in Firebase 9[32]
Franks has also appeared in television productions such as Hallmark Hall of Fame's "The Flamingo Rising" as Officer Randy Kraft starring with William Hurt, Elizabeth McGovern and Brian Benben[33] and Dolly Parton's Blue Valley Songbird[34]
He served as an Appalachian musician consultant and appeared with his Cornhuskers String Band for the 2012 feature Lawless (film).[35]
In addition to acting, Franks has worked behind the camera. He worked on the sets of Grace Under Fire and Foxworthy in Studio City, California.  He directed and hosted the PBS documentary "Still Ramblin'" about Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott, and directed and starred in the 2015 documentary "The Road to Nashville" with appearances by Mountain Cove Bluegrass, Ryan Stinson, Marcia Campbell, Jesse McReynolds and Mac Wiseman.[36]
Franks has maintained a presence in the music industry, appearing on various shows as a musical artist, Country Kids TV Series, Tonight at Ferlinghetti's (PBS 1985-87), Nashville Now, Crook and Chase, Miller & Company, Reno's Old Time Music Festival, and HGTV's Extreme Homes.[37] He shares memories, musical performances, and visits to movie sets and premieres from his career on his YouTube channel - Randall Franks TV.
He directed and starred in the American Revolution era film short "The American's Creed" and documentary “The Making of ‘The American’s Creed’” as "Capt. Robert B. Shields." He is slated to play “Dr. Caring” in the psychological thriller “The Ageless” based on an upcoming novel by Deborah Robillard.[38][39]

Author[edit]
Franks has authored several books across various genres:
His first novel, "A Badge or an Old Guitar: A Music City Murder Mystery," features a small-town police officer named James Randall who becomes involved in a murder mystery while pursuing musical aspirations.[40]
"Seeing Faith: A Devotional" (2024) contains 31 KJV Bible studies based on Franks' writings, with contributions from seven pastors - seven contributing pastors: Carroll Allen, Jeff Brown, Chris Bryant, Jamie Ellis, Justin Gazaway, David Sampson, and Mike Smith. The book incorporates Franks' experiences in music, acting, and his Southern Appalachian background.[41]
"Testing the Metal of Life: The Joe Barger Story" (2023) is a co-authored autobiography of Joe Barger, a former mayor and alderman of Ringgold, Georgia, who worked as a metallurgical engineer.[42]
Franks has written a three-volume series titled "Encouragers":

"Encouragers III: A Guiding Hand" (2016)
"Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters" (2015)
"Encouragers I: Finding the Light" (2014)
These books feature 156 stories about various individuals who influenced Franks' life, including actors and entertainers, along with 1,000 career photographs and 170 celebrity recipes.[43][44][45]
Other works by Franks include:

"Whittlin' and Fiddlin' My Own Way: The Violet Hensley Story" (2014), an autobiography of Silver Dollar City personality Violet Hensley,the whittlin' fiddler of Yellville, Arkansas.[46]
"A Mountain Pearl: Appalachian Reminiscing and Recipes," inspired by his mother's stories - Pearl Franks.[47]
"Stirring Up Additional Success with a Southern Flavor" and "Stirring Up Success with a Southern Flavor," co-authored with Shirley Smith [48] and ” Stirring Up Success with a Southern Flavor”,[49]
"Snake Oil, Superstars, and Me" (2007), co-authored with Ramblin' "Doc"  Tommy Scott and Shirley Noe Swiesz highlighting Scott's 90 years on the stage, film, and television.[50]
As of 2024, he is working on a book tentatively titled “Frankly Speaking: Thoughts on This and That” [51]

Journalist[edit]
Randall Franks began writing articles while in high school. His early work was published in several publications, including "Bluegrass Unlimited," [52] "SEBA Breakdown," [53]  "Precious Memories" magazine, and "The Catoosa County News."
Franks pursued a career in journalism from 2001 to 2009, working in association with News Publishing Co. During this period, his work received recognition from both the Georgia Press Association and the National Press Association, totaling 21 awards. These included a First Place Feature Photo award.[54] He writes a column called Southern Style which continues in publications from North Carolina to Louisiana.[55]  
Like his more famous writing cousin Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens),[51] he searched for humor and inspiration as he focused on journalism career with News Publishing Co.  He writes a column called "Southern Style," which is syndicated in publications across several southern states, from North Carolina to Louisiana. As of 
2024, Franks continues his column and contributes to various magazines.

Music Artist[edit]
Early years[edit]
Randall Franks's musical journey began with exposure to Southern Gospel piano and Appalachian fiddle at family reunions. His interest in violin was further sparked when he heard Ervin Rouse’s "Orange Blossom Special" played by Dr. Donald Grisier in his third-grade classroom. Franks sought instruction from fiddlers such as Dallas Burrell, WSB (AM) Barndance Host Cotton Carrier,  The Skillet Lickers’s Gordon Tanner of The Skillet Lickers, and Anita Sorrells Mathis.[56]
Franks formed a band called The Peachtree Pickers with fellow string students. The group gained local recognition, securing a regular slot on "The Country Kids TV Series" and making appearances at the Grand Ole Opry. They recorded five albums with Perfection Sound and Attieram Records.[57]
To promote the band, Franks established a fan club coordinated by Pearl Bruce, which grew to approximately 8,000 members by 1986. He created a newsletter called The Pickin' Post to share information about his career, Southern bluegrass festivals, and other groups. A separate publication, The Singing Post, was launched for fans interested in gospel music.[56]
When the Peachtree Pickers disbanded as members went to college, Franks pursued a solo career while also studying acting. He balanced his own performances with guest appearances alongside various acts and acting opportunities. Franks made his first guest appearance for the Grand Ole Opry in 1983 and continued to perform there through 2015.[57][58]

Randall Franks and the Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree[edit]
Following the release of his 1990 solo single "Handshakes and Smiles," Franks formed the Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree, a show that combined Appalachian bluegrass, gospel, and traditional country music. The show featured guest appearances from television personalities such as Donna Douglas of "The Beverly Hillbillies", Sonny Shroyer of "The Dukes of Hazzard" and Dan Biggers of "In the Heat of the Night". The Jamboree was based on a concept originally created by Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott in 1945, The historical Jamboree included stars spanning from  Uncle Dave Macon, Stringbean Akeman, Carolina Cotton, Johnny Mack Brown, Ray Whitley, Sunset Carson, Fuzzy St. John, to Tim McCoy and others.[59][60]
The Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree allowed Franks to expand his performances into fairs and larger country music events including its largest audience of over 30,000 at one South Carolina Show in 1999.  [61] Over the years, the show has featured various musical acts, including The Sand Mountain Boys, Ryan Robertson, Barney Miller, Roger Hammett, James Watson, Bill Everett, Gilbert Hancock, Sue and Kim Koskela, Danny Bell, David Davis and the Warrior River Boys, Gary Waldrep, The Dowden Sisters, Ryan Stinson, the Watkins Family, Wesley Crider, Jaden Maxwell, Smith & Wesley, The Marksmen Quartet, Testimony Quartet, Getting Off Track, Colton Brown, Caleb Lewis, Dawson Wright and others.
During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Franks, along with Alison Krauss, became prominent figures in the fiddle music scene. Franks continued to release music throughout the 1990s, including a collaboration with Grand Ole Opry stars The Whites titled "Let's Live Every Day Like It Was Christmas." He also released two bluegrass albums that reached the Top 30: "Sacred Sounds of Appalachia" (1992) and "Tunes and Tales from Tunnel Hill" (1995).
Franks' prominence in the bluegrass community led to his hosting of the 1995 SPBGMA Bluegrass Music Awards in Nashville. He also presented the Male Vocalist of the Year award to Del McCoury.[62] at the IBMA Awards in Owensboro in 1992.
Throughout his career, Franks has performed at various notable events and venues, including the Country Music Association Fan Fair, major bluegrass festivals, the National Folk Festival (United States), National Black Arts Festival,the Grand Ole Opry, and a Command Presidential Performance.[63]

Fiddling[edit]
Randall Franks's fiddling style shows influences from Georgia Fiddle Bands, including Fiddlin' John Carson, and The Skillet Lickers. He honed his skills by participating in Georgia fiddle contests, many of which were organized by mandolinist Bill Lowery, as well as the Grand Ole Opry's Grand Master Fiddler Championship.
Franks became a regular performer at the Grand Master Championship for the Opry. His bluegrass album Tunes and Tales from Tunnel Hill includes a track called "Big Tige, Mr. Roy and Me," which recounts an experience with Opry fiddling stars Benny Martin and Roy Acuff following a Grand Master Fiddler Championship.[64] 
In recognition of his efforts to preserve Georgia's fiddling heritage, the state named a fiddle contest after Franks in the 1990s, which was held at Lake Lanier Islands.[65] Then the Randall Franks Trophy was presented at the 1890s Day Jamboree Old Time Fiddler's Convention in Ringgold, Georgia.[66] Randall Franks Trophy winners 1994-2018 are Jack Weeks, Roy Crawford, Johnny Ray Watts (Three-Times), Aerin DeJarnette, Mark Ralph, Doug Fleener, Megan Lynch, Maddie Denton (Five-Times), and Tyler Andal.[67]
Franks co-hosts America's Grand Master Fiddler Championship in Nashville at the Country Music Hall of Fame. Franks recorded four fiddle recordings including Peach Picked Fiddle Favorites, Pick of the Peaches Fiddlin', Golden River Fiddlin', and Sacred Sounds of Appalachia.
Throughout his career, Franks has performed or recorded with Carl Perkins; Charlie Daniels; Peabo Bryson; The Whites; Ricky Skaggs; Kitty Wells; Pee Wee King; Jimmy Dickens; Jeff and Sheri Easter; The Lewis Family; The Isaacs; the Primitive Quartet; Bill Monroe; Jim and Jesse; Ralph Stanley; Raymond Fairchild; Jimmy Martin; Mac Wiseman; Chubby Wise; Josh Graves; Doug Dillard; Jerry Douglas; Sam Bush; Byron Berline; John Schneider (screen actor), Smith and Wesley, the Warrior River Boys; the Sand Mountain Boys; the Gary Waldrep Band; the Cox Family; the Watkins Family; the Sidemen; Elaine and Shorty; and "Doc" Tommy Scott's Last Real Old Time Medicine Show.[62]

Randall Franks and the Georgia Mafia Bluegrass Band[edit]
Randall Franks and the Georgia Mafia Bluegrass Band
The Georgia Mafia Bluegrass Band was formed in 2009, conceived by Georgia Music Hall of Fame member Johnny Carson. The group is composed of Atlanta Country Music Hall of Fame members and was initially assembled to support Randall Franks in a PBS television special performance.
The band's lineup includes Randall Franks (fiddle), Jerry Burke (fiddle), Helen Burke (guitar), J. Max McKee (banjo), Rick Smith (guitar), and Dean Marsh (bass). The group has performed at various events, including a live Georgia Public Broadcasting presentation of the Georgia Music Hall of Fame, where they appeared alongside Collective Soul and Third Day in a tribute to Georgia music pioneer John L. "Johnny" Carson.[68] 
The Georgia Mafia Bluegrass Band has received recognition within the local music scene, winning Bluegrass Band of the Year seven times. They continue to perform at special events and award shows in Georgia, the Carolinas, and Tennessee, with occasional changes in the lineup. One of their performances, "The Old Black Fiddle," is featured on the compilation album "Randall Franks: 30 Years on TV and Radio - Vol. II."[69][70][71]

Randall Franks and the Cornhuskers String Band[edit]
Mia Wasikowska 2010
Randall Franks formed an Appalachian music group in 2011 for a specific performance in the film adaptation of “The Wettest County in the World,” which was released in 2012 as “Lawless (film).” Serving as an Appalachian music consultant for director John Hillcoat, Franks assembled a group consisting of Jerry Burke (mandolin), Barney Miller (resonator guitar), Hollis Landrum (banjo), and Rusty Tate (banjo), with Franks himself on fiddle.
The ensemble performed live for cast members Tom Hardy, Shia LaBeouf, Jason Clarke,  and Dane DeHaan to provide an authentic Appalachian music experience and for a community dance scene in the film. Actress Mia Wasikowska joined the group on camera, playing mandolin and singing.
One of the group's performances, "Little Liza Jane," was later included on the compilation album "Randall Franks: 30 Years on TV and Radio - Vol. II."[72]

Other Musical Acts[edit]
Bill Monroe and the Blue Grass Boys[edit]
Bill Monroe, a member of the Country, Bluegrass, Rock and Roll, and Songwriter Halls of Fame, played a significant role in Randall Franks's early career. Monroe mentored Franks and facilitated his introduction to the Grand Ole Opry, arranging for Franks's youth band, The Peachtree Pickers, to perform there.
In 1984, when fiddler Kenny Baker left the Blue Grass Boys, Monroe invited Franks to join the group. Despite still being in school, Franks toured with Monroe, Wayne Lewis, Blake Williams, and Tater Tate before returning to his studies. During this period, several live recordings were made of Franks's performances with Monroe.
Two of these recordings, "Back Up and Push" and "The Road to Columbus," were later released on the album "The American's Creed" in 2016 and 2024 respectively.[73] Proceeds from these releases benefit the Share America Foundation's Pearl and Floyd Franks Appalachian Music Scholarship.[74]
Franks's contributions to Monroe's legacy have been acknowledged by the International Bluegrass Music Hall of Fame and Museum, the State of Kentucky, Bluegrass Unlimited, and the Grand Ole Opry. Monroe continued to invite Franks to perform on his shows throughout his career. Since 2007, Franks has participated in Blue Grass Boys reunions.[75] Official website

Doodle and the Golden River Grass[edit]
In 1985, Randall Franks joined the Appalachian folk music group Doodle and the Golden River Grass as their fiddler. The group, which was active from 1963 to 1995, included John "Doodle" Thrower, James Watson, Gene Daniell, Wesley Clackum, and C.J. Clackum. Franks's addition to the lineup contributed to the continuation of the Georgia Fiddle Band tradition.
Doodle and the Golden River Grass gained recognition through appearances on PBS, at America's National Folk Festival, the World's Fair, and the Olympics, as well as various festivals and concerts. The band's music was featured on 17 albums throughout their career. One of these albums, "Art of Field Recording Vol. 1," which included performances by the group, won a Grammy Award.[76][77][78]

The Marksmen Quartet[edit]
The Marksmen Quartet
In 1984, Randall Franks joined the Marksmen Quartet, a gospel group from Murrayville, Georgia. Led by Dr. Earle Wheeler, the quartet was known for their vocal performances and had received multiple industry awards. Franks performed with the group intermittently until the early 1990s.
During Franks's tenure, the Marksmen Quartet also included Mark Wheeler, Keith Chambers, Darrin Chambers, and Rob Gillentine. The group, which had been nominated for Dove Awards, recorded several albums during this period, with Franks contributing to chart-performing songs.
Franks's association with the Marksmen Quartet continued beyond his active membership. Members of the group have participated in Franks's recordings, concerts, and videos since the 1980s, including his 2012 DVD release "Concert of Celebration."[79][80]

Jeff & Sheri Easter[edit]
Randall Franks served as the inaugural fiddler for Jeff & Sheri Easter when the duo launched their career with their debut album, "New Tradition." Franks performed live and on television with the group during this period.
Jeff & Sheri Easter later became part of Bill Gaither (gospel singer)'s Homecoming Friends and went on to receive Grammy nominations. The duo reciprocated Franks's early support by contributing to his 1990 release "Handshakes and Smiles," appearing on both the album and its singles. They also participated in Franks's 2012 DVD "Concert of Celebration."[81][82]

David Davis and the Warrior River Boys[edit]
Randall Franks occasionally performed with David Davis (bluegrass)  and the Warrior River Boys as a sideman, playing fiddle, guitar, and bass. He also made guest appearances at their shows. During the 1990s, Davis and his band sometimes participated in Randall Franks and the Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree performances.
In 2000, Franks and Davis collaborated on an Appalachian brother duet album titled "God's Children." The project featured Warrior River Boy Marty Hays and guest appearances by Sonny Shroyer, "Doc" Tommy Scott, and Cotton and Jane Carrier. The album debuted at the Signal Mountain Opry in Walden, Tennessee.
Franks and Davis also contributed to the 2009 compilation album "Heaven Knows Where We Will Go from Here," which featured various bluegrass bands. Davis later appeared in Franks's 2012 DVD "Concert of Celebration."[83]

Jim and Jesse and the Virginia Boys[edit]
Jim & Jesse
Randall Franks's association with Grand Ole Opry stars  Jim & Jesse began during his youth as a member of their fan club. The duo played a mentorship role in Franks's early country music career, helping to establish him as an artist.
Jesse McReynolds contributed to Franks's first solo release, "Handshakes and Smiles," which became Franks's first charting album. Jesse also appeared on several other Franks albums, including the 2012 DVD "Concert of Celebration."
Franks occasionally performed as a fiddler with Jim & Jesse as part of their backing band, the Virginia Boys. He continued to play with Jesse after Jim's passing. During the 1990s, Franks regularly made guest appearances on the Jim & Jesse Show. The duo also served as Franks's backing band for special Grand Ole Opry and TV appearances, as well as Franks's Grand Ole Opry "Share with DARE" Concerts.
Jim & Jesse collaborated with Franks on the "In the Heat of the Night" Christmas album titled "Christmas Time's A Comin'." They also recorded the ballad "Mean Joe Blake" with Franks, a song he co-wrote with actor Alan Autry.[84]

The Lewis Family[edit]
The Lewis Family, members of both the Gospel and Bluegrass Music Halls of Fame, influenced Randall Franks from his early years. The first collaboration between Franks and the group occurred in the 1980s when Little Roy Lewis performed with Franks's Peachtree Pickers in Cedartown, Georgia.
From around 1990, Franks began making guest appearances with The Lewis Family at concerts and festivals, a practice that continued throughout the decade. His final performance with the group took place at the Conasauga Bluegrass Festival in Dalton, Georgia, in 2008, where he performed throughout their show. Franks also assisted in promoting the family's farewell concert in Lincolnton, Georgia, in 2009.
Members of The Lewis Family contributed to several of Franks's recordings. Travis Lewis and Lewis Phillips appeared on Franks's "Handshakes and Smiles" and "Sacred Sounds of Appalachia" albums. Roy "Pop" Lewis Sr., a Southern Gospel Music Hall of Fame inductee, appeared in Franks's "Handshakes and Smiles" music video. The family also collaborated with Franks on the "In the Heat of the Night" Christmas album titled "Christmas Time's A Comin'."[85]

Chubby Wise[edit]
From 1989 to 1996, Randall Franks frequently performed alongside Chubby Wise, a member of the International Bluegrass Music Hall of Fame, at bluegrass festivals in Georgia, Florida, and South Carolina. Their collaborations often featured twin fiddle performances.
Wise contributed to the "In the Heat of the Night" Christmas album titled "Christmas Time's A Comin'," on which Franks also appeared. Additionally, a recording of Wise and Franks performing "Golden Slippers" together was included on Franks's compilation album "30 Years on Radio and TV Volume II."[86][87]

"Doc" Tommy Scott and the Last Real Old Time Medicine Show[edit]
Randall Franks began collaborating with Country and Western Pioneer Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott and his Last Real Old Time Medicine Show in 1995. Initially, Franks worked behind the scenes as a songwriter, publishing administrator, and film catalog manager. He booked the show for the 1996 Olympics from Studio City, California.
Scott and Franks co-wrote several songs, including "You Can't Stop Time," which was recorded by the Lewis Family. They also collaborated on the 1999 album "Comedy Down Home" and Scott's "Say A Little Prayer" for the 2000 "God's Children" CD.
Franks produced and hosted the 2001 PBS documentary "Still Ramblin'" and "Trail of the Hawk," both focusing on Ramblin' Tommy Scott's career. He made appearances with the Medicine Show, including on HGTV's "Extreme Homes."[88] 
In April 2009, Franks and Scott presented the play "An Appalachian Gathering" to raise funds for the Share America Foundation, Inc. The production featured a cast of 20 performers and depicted Southern life in the 1940s and present day, highlighting the impact of the Medicine Show on small towns. Franks portrayed Scott in the 1940s scenes.[89] 
Scott appeared in Franks's 2012 "Concert of Celebration" DVD. Following Scott's death on September 30, 2013, Franks, along with the Watkins Family, performed Scott's "Say A Little Prayer" at his private memorial service.[82][90]

The Watkins Family[edit]
Randall Franks resumed touring in 2007 after a hiatus during which he cared for his ailing mother. For his return performances, both on stage and television, Franks invited the Watkins Family to serve as his backing band.
Franks reciprocated by appearing as a special guest at the Watkins Family's concerts, including performances at the National Quartet Convention and on INSP (Inspiration Network). The two acts continued to collaborate, appearing in package shows and supporting each other's stage performances. The Watkins Family also participated in Franks's Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree.
The musical partnership between Franks and the Watkins Family was documented on Franks's compilation album "30 Years on Radio and TV Volume I," where they performed together on the tracks "Must Be a Reason" and "God's Children."[91]

Alan Autry[edit]
Alan Autry
Randall Franks and Alan Autry collaborated through Autry-Franks Productions and Crimson Records to release an Americana album in 2013 titled "Alan Autry and Randall Franks Mississippi Moon: Country Traditions." The album features both actors performing classic and original songs across country, bluegrass, and Southern gospel genres.
The project includes guest appearances by Bluegrass Hall of Fame members Jim and Jesse McReynolds, as well as three-time Dove Award nominee Mark Wheeler.[92]
Franks and Autry had previously worked together as producers on the "In the Heat of the Night Christmas Time's A Comin'" CD. In 1991, the duo, along with fellow actor David Hart, made an appearance on the Grand Ole Opry and two performances on TNN (The Nashville Network).[93]

Elaine and Shorty - The GrassKats[edit]
During his college years, Randall Franks played fiddle with the Georgia-based bluegrass band Elaine and Shorty - The GrassKats. The group's lineup during Franks's tenure included Shorty Eager on banjo, Elaine Eager on guitar, and Mike Newberry on bass, later replaced by Bruce Sims.
Shorty Eager had previously performed with Jimmy Martin and his Sunny Mountain Boys. The GrassKats regularly appeared at festivals, concerts, clubs, and on television.
In 2007, Elaine and Shorty Eager were inducted into the Atlanta Country Music Hall of Honor, recognizing their contributions to the local music scene.[94]

Josh Graves[edit]
Randall Franks performed with Josh Graves, a member of the International Bluegrass Music Hall of Fame known for his resonator guitar playing. Graves had previously performed with Flatt & Scruggs, The Legends of Bluegrass, and Kenny Baker.
Franks has referred to his collaboration with Graves as his first professional music job. The two musicians later worked together on the "In the Heat of the Night" Christmas album, with Graves contributing to the title track "Christmas Time's A Comin'."

Discography[edit]
This discography presents Randall Franks's recordings in chronological order, including album titles, record labels, and release formats. It also notes significant musicians who contributed to the recordings where applicable. 

"Ivory Halls" - The Peachtree Pickers
Attieram Records - AP I 1618 [95]

"Peach Picked Fiddle Favorites" - Randall Franks and the Peachtree Pickers
Released as Perfection Sound cassette (1985), Attieram cassette (1987), Crimson Records CD 1646 (2008).[96]

"Bluegrass Banjo" - The Peachtree Pickers
"Building on Sand" - The Peachtree Pickers
Attieram Records - AP I 1626 [97]

"Pick of the Peaches Fiddlin'" - Randall Franks and the Peachtree Pickers
Released as Attieram Records cassette (1986), Crimson Records CD 1656 (2008) [98]

"Golden River Fiddlin'" Randall "Randy" Franks with the Golden River Grass
Crimson Records RG 2760 (cassette, 1989; CD, 2008)
Bluegrass Unlimited said he was "hard driving…straightahead…solid…sure” like Tommy Jackson and Paul Warren while his "special touch on the fiddle" was recognized by SPBGMA, the Society for the Preservation of Bluegrass Music in America.[62]
[99]

"Handshakes and Smiles" Randall "Randy" Franks
Crimson Records 2679 (cassette, 1990; CD, 2000)
Notable musicians: Travis Lewis, Mark Wheeler, Lewis Phillips, Jeff & Sheri Easter, Jesse McReynolds, Darrin Chambers, Steve Easter, Carol Lee Cooper, Dennis McCall, and Eugene Akers 
Franks began the 1990s as he crossed over to the Southern Gospel market to the Top 20 Sales Charts.[100] Singing News gave it Four Stars.[101]
Telly nominated music video of "Handshakes and Smiles" from the project included Alan Autry, David Hart, Pop Lewis, Jesse McReynolds, Travis Lewis, Mark Wheeler and Lewis Phillips.[102]

Singles:
He's Never Gonna Fool Me Again / Rock of Ages - Randall "Randy" Franks Crimson Records CR-2679-01 (7" vinyl, 45 RPM) Pressed By – United Record Pressing – U-26693M
You Better Get Ready / Pass Me Not - Randall "Randy" Franks Crimson Records CR-2679-01C, CR-2679-01D (7" vinyl, 45 RPM) Pressed By – United Record Pressing – U-28747[103]
Albums Con't.:

"Sacred Sounds of Appalachia" Randall Franks
Initially released by Sonlite Records for Zion (1992), later as Crimson Records CRZ111 (1998)
Musicians: Randall Franks with The Peachtree Pickers (Mark Wheeler, Lewis Phillips, Steve "Rabbit" Easter, Travis Lewis, Bill Everett, Eugene Akers, Earle Wheeler)
Tracks include: Uncloudy Day, Beautiful Star of Bethlehem, Leaning on the Everlasting Arms, Sweet Hour of Prayer, Will the Circle Be Unbroken, Old Time Religion, Amazing Grace, Kneel at the Cross, Just A Rose Will Do, This World Is Not My Home [104]

Singles:
Sonlite Singles CD Vol. 8 1992 Sonlite/Charity Records Sent to Radio:
"Leaning on the Everlasting Arms" Randall "Randy" Franks from Sacred Sounds of Appalachia
"Sweet Hour of Prayer" Randall "Randy" Franks from Sacred Sounds of Appalachia
"This World Is Not My Home" Randall "Randy" Franks from Sacred Sounds of Appalachia
Sonlite Singles CD Vol. 10 1992 Sonlite/Charity Records Sent to Radio::
"Beautiful Star of Bethlehem" Randall "Randy" Franks from Sacred Sounds of Appalachia
"Bring A Torch Jeanette Isabella" Carroll O'Connor with Randall Franks, Jesse McReynolds, Abe Manuel, Jr. and Buddy Spicher from Christmas Times' A Comin' In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends
"Christmas Time's A Comin'" In the Heat of the Night Cast with Doug Dillard, Josh Graves, Jim and Jesse McReynolds, The Lewis Family, Wayne Lewis, Jimmy Martin, Ralph Stanley, Buddy Spicher, Chubby Wise and Mac Wiseman from Christmas Times' A Comin' In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends
Albums Con't.:

"Tunes and Tales from Tunnel Hill" Randall Franks and the Sand Mountain Boys
Crimson Records cassette 1634 (1995), CD (2007)
Musicians: Randall Franks with Gary Waldrep, Kenny Townsel, Wayne Crain, and Jerry Crain [105]

'"Mississippi Moon" - Randall Franks
Crimson Records Cassette EP (4 songs, 1996)

Singles:
Sonlite Singles CD Vol. 22 1996 Sonlite Records Sent to Radio:
"Let's Live Every Day Like It Was Christmas" with The Whites From "Christmas Times' A Comin' In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends"
Albums Con't.:

"Comedy Down Home" - Randall Franks with “Doc” Tommy Scott (1997) Other performers: Gary Waldrep, Kenneth Townsel, and James Watson [106]
Singles:
Galaxy Entertainment CD radio compilation Hometown Christmas Favorites 1997:
""The Pilgrimage to Bethlehem" - Randall Franks (from "Golden River Fiddlin'")
Galaxy Entertainment CD radio compilation Hometown Gospel Favorites Vol. 1 1998:
"Rock of Ages" - Randall Franks (from "Golden River Fiddlin'")
Galaxy Entertainment CD radio compilation Hometown Gospel Favorites Vol. 2 (1999):
""Precious Memories" - Randall Franks (from "Golden River Fiddlin'")
Albums Con't.:

"God's Children" Randall Franks and David Davis[107]
Singles:
LAMP Music Group CD (2001, Radio Promotion):
“Children in Need” Randall Franks and David Davis with Sonny Shroyer performing the Franks and Ramblin’ “Doc” Tommy Scott recitation from God’s Children.
Albums Con't.:

"An Appalachian Musical Revival: Live at the Ringgold Depot” Randall Franks and Various Artists
Share America/Crimson CD (2008)
Features Randall Franks with multiple artists including Four Fold, Buddy Liles, the Marksmen Quartet, Barney Miller, the Smoky Mountain Boys, the Southern Sound Quartet, the Testimony Quartet, Voices Won, Walnut Grove Bluegrass Band, the Watkins Family, Garrett Arb, Brady Hughes, John Rice, Deborah Taylor, Calvary Strings, Mt. Peria Baptist Church Male Chorus and the Ringgold United Methodist Church Chancel Choir.[108]

"Early Gospel Favorites" - Randall Franks and the Peachtree Pickers
Crimson Records CR 1527 (2010) [109]

"Down at Raccoon Creek" - Randall Franks and the Peachtree Pickers
Crimson Records CR 1926 (2010) [110]

"Early Bluegrass Recordings" - Randall Franks and the Peachtree Pickers
Crimson Records CR 2892 (2012) [111]

"A Concert of Celebration: A Mountain Pearl" Randall Franks and Various Artists DVD (2012)
Features performances by Randall Franks and various artists including Paul Brown, John and Debbie Farley, Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott, Curly Seckler, Peanut Faircloth with the Trust Jesus Singers, Chubby Wise, David Davis, Johnny Counterfit, Gary Waldrep, Barney Miller, Jeff & Sheri Easter, Bill Monroe and the Blue Grass Boys, Butch Lanham, Doodle and the Golden River Grass, Dale Tilley, Jesse McReynolds, Johnnie Sue and Nelson Richardson.[112]

"Mississippi Moon: Country Traditions" - Randall Franks and Alan Autry
Crimson Records (2013)
Americana CD featuring both artists vocally, with Franks contributing musically and as producer.[113]

"Mountain Opry Memories" Randall Franks
Share America Foundation SAF102 (2013)
17 recordings from appearances at the Mountain Opry in Walden, Tennessee (1999-2010) Produced by Franks, Tom Adkins, and Tom Morgan. The recording includes special appearances by David Davis, the late country pioneer Charlie "Peanut" Faircloth, Mountain Cove Bluegrass Band, Valley Grass and others.[114]

"Precious Memories" Randall Franks and ...
Share America Foundation (2014)
Live recording at Ringgold Depot featuring Randall Franks, Calvary's Blend, Cody Harvey, Butch Lanham, Tim Owens and Journey On, Ryan Stinson, and Johnnie Sue.[115]

“Country Kids” Randall Franks and the Peachtree Pickers
Crimson Records CR-2899 (2014)
Collection of previously unreleased recordings from 1975-1983

"Keep 'Em Smilin'" Randall Franks
Crimson Records (2016)
Christian music and comedy CD featuring Franks accompanied by pianist Curtis Broadway. Franks premiered it in an appearance with former U.S. President Jimmy Carter.[116] The album includes some of his most frequently requested songs, accompanied by Southern gospel pianist Curtis Broadway.[117]

"30 Years on Radio and TV Volume I" - Randall Franks
Share America Foundation (2016)
23 Christian and comedy recordings featuring various guest artists including Raymond Fairchild, Voices Won, Grand Ole Opry stars – the Whites, Jeff & Sheri Easter, David Davis and the Warrior River Boys, Doodle and the Golden River Grass, Jerry Douglas, Steve Easter, Travis Lewis, Lewis Phillips, “Doc” Tommy Scott, Gary Waldrep, Mark Wheeler, Carol Lee Singers, and Darrin Chambers. The recording includes his 2023 #1 Cashbox recording with The Watkins Family - God’s Children.[118]

"30 Years on Radio and TV Volume II" - Randall Franks
Share America Foundation (2016)
23 bluegrass, folk, Americana, and comedy recordings featuring collaborations with Bill Monroe and the Blue Grass Boys, Jim and Jesse McReynolds, Chubby Wise, Raymond Fairchild, Gary Waldrep, his Cornhuskers String Band and the Georgia Mafia Bluegrass Band.[119]

"Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia" Randall Franks with Various Artists
Share America Foundation (2019)
18 recordings featuring over 30 youth performers, ages 11–27 including Emerald Butler; Warren Carnes; Phillip Cross; Landon Fitzpatrick; Nicholas Hickman; Trevor Holder; Kings Springs Road of Johnson City, Tenn. including Tyler Griffith, Owen Schinkel, Kylie Anderson, Josh Meade, and Max Silverstein; Isaac Moore; Mountain Cove Bluegrass Band of Chattanooga, Tenn. including Eli Beard, Cody Harvey, Colin Mabry, Wil Markham, Tyler Martelli, and Chris Brown; Matthew Nave; Wally O'Donald; Drew Sherrill; SingAkadamie including Jacob Trotter, Grant Lewellen, Nicholas Hickman, Lilly Anne York, Haleigh Grey, Kayla Starks, Chelsea Brewster, Logan Lynne and Kiersten Suttles; Landon Wall; and Tyler West. Reached #1 on the June 2019 Top 50 APD Americana Global Charts. Includes original songs, standards, and covers
Guest appearances by Gospel Music Hall of Fame member Jeff Hullender and others. The effort was supported by a grant from the North Georgia Electric Membership Corporation Foundation, Kiwanis Club of Ringgold, and the Wes and Shirley Smith Charitable Endowment.[120]

Singles:
AirPlay Direct Digital Release
"It's A Hard Road to Make Love Easy"
"How Could I Go?"
"What About All These American Flags?"
"Wash Day"
"Time for the Blues"
"Midnight Train"
"Filling the River with Tears"
"Someone Greater Than I"
"I Believe He Spoke to Me"
"The Star Spangled Banner"
"When We All Get to Heaven & Blessed Assurance"
"Farther Along"
"I Want to Be Ready"
“Baby’s Coming Home"
“Piano Man”
“Traveler’s Lantern;”
“Been Gone A Long Time;”
“Old Spinning Wheel.” [121]
Albums Con't.:

“Faith Will See Us Through” - Randall Franks
Crimson Records/Share America Foundation (2020)
Collection of gospel songs from TV, radio, and DVD performances Features collaborations with the Watkins Family, Peachtree Pickers, and members of Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree
Includes "God's Children" with the Watkins Family, which reached #1 on Cashbox Magazine's Bluegrass Gospel chart in February 2023.[122]

Singles:
AirPlay Direct Digital Radio Release All Songs
“The American’s Creed” - Randall Franks
Crimson Records/Share America Foundation (2024)
Reached #7 on AirPlay Direct Global Americana album chart Features music from Franks's film of the same name. Includes collaborations with guitarist Wesley Crider and live performances with Hollywood Hillbilly Jamboree. Contains two 40th Anniversary recordings with Bill Monroe and the Blue Grass Boys.[41]

Singles:
AirPlay Direct Digital Radio Release All Songs
Chart Songs[edit]
This chart information highlights Randall Franks's most significant chart performances across various genres and chart compilers, including Cashbox Magazine, APD (AirPlay Direct), and others. It covers both single and album releases from 1990 to 2024.

#1  “God’s Children” with the Watkins Family Feb. 1, 2023 Cashbox Magazine Bluegrass Gospel Charts  [123]
#1  "He's Never Gonna Fool Me Again" Dec.  19, 2013    IBA Bluegrass/Americana Charts
#1  "Old Joe Clark"                  Sept. 16, 2013    IBM BSM Global Chart
#13 "Bonaparte's Retreat"            March 28, 2014    CMG/BSM Americana/Bluegrass (Top 20)
#25 "Filling the River with Tears"   June 2019         APD Top 50 Americana Global Singles
#28 "Bonaparte's Retreat"            March 28, 2014    CMG Radio Country Music Chart (Top 100)
#29 "What About All These American Flags" June 2019    APD Top 50 Americana Global Singles
#42 "The Kind of Love I Can't Forget" with Peanut Faircloth June 2019 APD Top 50 Country/Alt. Global Singles
From Randall's Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia[edit]
Top 50 APD Americana / Grassicana Global Singles - June 2019 [120]
#11 Farther Along - Isaac Moore
#16 When We All Get to Heaven & Blessed Assurance - Colton Brown
#18 The Star-Spangled Banner - SingAkadamie (Sheri Thrower)
#19 I Want to Be Ready - Mountain Cove Bluegrass Band
#24 It's A Hard Road to Make Love Easy - Ryan Stinson
#25 Filling the River with Tears - Randall Franks with Mountain Cove Bluegrass Band
#27 Piano Man - Colton Brown
#28 I Believe He Spoke to Me - Nicholas Hickman with SingAkadamie
#29 What About All These American Flags? - Randall Franks
#33 Been Gone A Long Time - Wally O'Donald and SingAkadamie
#34 Someone Greater Than I - Ryan Stinson with Jeff Hullender (The Hullender Family)
#36 Old Spinning Wheel - Landon Fitzpatrick
#39 Midnight Train - Phillip Cross
#40 Baby's Coming Home - Caleb Lewis
#49 How Could I Go? - Emerald Butler
Chart Albums[edit]
#1 Randall Franks Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia June 2019 Top 50 APD Americana/Grassicana Global Albums
#1 Randall Franks Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia Feb. 13, 2021 Top 50 APD Global Albums
#1 In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends Christmas Time's A Comin' Oct. 2019 Top 50 APD Christmas Global Albums
#2 In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends Christmas Time's A Comin' Dec. 2019 Top 50 APD Global Albums
#4 In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends Christmas Time's A Comin' Oct. 17, 2021 Top 50 APD Global Albums
#7 Randall Franks The American’s Creed April 2024 Top 50 APD Global Americana Album
#8, #16 & #19 Randall Franks Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia  May 2020 Top 50 APD Global Albums
#9 Randall Franks Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia June 2019 Top 50 Global Albums All Genres
#10 Randall Franks Americana Youth of Southern Appalachia Feb. 2020 Top 50 APD Americana/Grassicana Global Albums
#10 Randall Franks - Faith Will See Us Through April 26, 2021 Top 50 APD Global Albums
#16 Randall Franks - God's Children          July 2019      Top 50 APD Bluegrass/Folk Global Albums
#12 Randall Franks - APD Music Page          June 2019      Top 50 APD Christian/Gospel Global Albums
#18 Randall Franks - "Keep 'Em Smilin'"      June 2019      Top 50 APD Christian/Gospel Global Albums
#18 Randall Franks - Handshakes and Smiles   June 1990 Top 20 Christian Sales Charts The Music City News
#20 Randall Franks - Mountain Opry Memories  June 2019      Top 50 APD Bluegrass/Folk Global Albums
#20 & #45 Randall Franks - Faith Will See Us Through June 2020    Top 50 APD Global Albums
#25 Randall Franks - APD Music Page                Jan. 25, 2022  Top 50 APD Global Albums
#36 In the Heat of the Night Cast and Friends Christmas Time's A Comin' Top 50 ALLTIME APD Holiday/Christmas Albums [124]
[120]

Recording Executive & Producer[edit]
Recording Executive & Producer
Franks served as director of A&R for MBM Records and its affiliated labels, including Encore and ASL, while also overseeing its publishing company.[125] He contributed to Atteiram Records, a bluegrass label, as a graphic artist and liner note writer, designing album covers and cassette inserts for various artists. Some of these artists included The Crain Brothers, Appalachian Express, James Monroe, Jim Southern and Southern Sounds, Joe Stuart and Carl Sauceman, Brother Birch Monroe, Frank Buchanan,  Carl Story and the Rambling Mountaineers, Vic Jordan, The Ridgerunners, The Boyd Brothers, Hubert Cox and the Southern Grass, The Blue Ridge Gentlemen, The Pinnacle Boys, and Southwind.

In the Heat of the Night Christmas[edit]
Franks and his In the Heat of the Night co-star Alan Autry collaborated under Autry-Franks Productions to produce a charity CD titled In the Heat of the Night CD Christmas Time's A Comin ' featuring them and the other cast members of the show Carroll O'Connor, Howard Rollins, Anne-Marie Johnson, David Hart, Geoffrey Thorne, Crystal Fox, Wilbur Fitzgerald, Sharon Pratt and others. The project aimed to raise funds for drug abuse prevention charities.
The "Christmas Time's A Comin'" CD was released on Sonlite and MGM/UA labels in 1991. In 2012, Autry and Franks re-released the album through the Share America Foundation, Inc. to mark its 20th anniversary. In 2019, the project was distributed to worldwide radio through AirPlay Direct where it reached #1.
With Franks producing, Autry performed his rendition of "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" in homage to Gene Autry. Franks performed an original song with Grand Ole Opry stars The Whites entitled "Let's Live Everyday Like It was Christmas". The duo both performed on "Jingle Bells" and "Christmas Time's A Comin '". Franks and Autry were able to include many music legends, some among them, Country Music Hall of Famers Kitty Wells, Jimmy Dickens, and Pee Wee King as well as many top legends from the Bluegrass genre, from Jim and Jesse to the Lewis Family. The Christmas Time's A Comin ' CD released on Sonlite and MGM/UA was popular in 1991 and 1992.[126]
[127] In 2022, the album hit #36 on the AirPlay Direct Top 50 Global Holiday/Christmas Albums [128][129]

Music publishing[edit]
In the early 1980s, Franks established Peach Picked Publishing, affiliated with Broadcast Music Inc. (BMI). The company initially focused on managing music created by Franks and his collaborators. While Franks has written songs for larger publishing companies such as Lowery Music Group, Chris White Music, and Chestnut Mound Publishing, he continues to write for Peach Picked Publishing. One of his compositions, "Filling the River with Tears," was recorded by David Davis and the Warrior River Boys.
Over time, Peach Picked Publishing expanded its catalog to include works from various artists, including Bluegrass Hall of Fame members Chubby Wise and Curly Seckler, and Georgia Music Hall of Fame member Cotton Carrier. The company has also managed recordings by artists such as Marty Stuart, Ralph Stanley, and The Grateful Dead.
Franks later formed Randall Franks Music to manage publishing and music catalogs for other artists. Through this venture, he has assisted artists in negotiating royalties from film, television, and other sources worldwide. Some of the artists he has worked with include Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott, Bill Monroe, Jim and Jesse, Flatt & Scruggs and the Foggy Mountain Boys, and Curly Seckler.[130]

Awards and Recognitions[edit]
Randall Franks has been inducted into several music-related halls of fame:

Atlanta Country Music Hall of Fame (2004) [131]
North Georgia Musicians Wall of Fame (2009) [132]
Independent Country Music Hall of Fame (2013) [133]
America's Old Time Country Music Hall of Fame (2019) [134]
Tri-State Gospel Music Hall of Fame (2022) [135]
In 2010, the Carolinas Country, Bluegrass and Gospel Hall of Fame presented Franks with its Legend Award and designated him as the "Appalachian Ambassador of the Fiddle".[136]
Franks has also received local recognition, including induction into the Catoosa County Chamber Business Person Hall of Fame and being named Catoosa County Patriotic Citizen of the Year in 2020.[137]
As an actor, Franks was part of the cast of "In the Heat of the Night" when the series won two NAACP Awards for Outstanding Drama Series in 1992 and 1993.[21][22]  The show also received Golden Globe nominations for Best Television Drama in 1990 and 1991. Franks appeared in the film "The Cricket's Dance," which received awards at various film festivals, including Best Feature Film and Best Ensemble Cast.[27]
Randall Franks has received various awards and nominations throughout his career in music:

Fiddlin' John Carson Award [138]
A.S.E. Male Vocalist of the Year [139]
Cotton Carrier Award [140]
Little Jimmy Dempsey Musician Award [141]
Sons of the American Revolution Citizenship Award
Jose Awards Nominee 2023 & 2024 Inspirational Vocalist of the Year and Musician of the Year (Fiddle)
In 2004, Catoosa County designated Franks as "Appalachian Ambassador of the Fiddle". The Governor of Kentucky recognized him for his contributions to the music of Bill Monroe.[142]
The Atlanta Society of Entertainers awarded Franks Songwriter of the Year in 2009 for his composition "The Old Black Fiddle".[143]  The same organization named Franks and his group, the Georgia Mafia Bluegrass Band, as Bluegrass Band of the Year multiple times between 2010 and 2018.[144] 
The International Bluegrass Music Museum in Owensboro, Kentucky recognized Franks as a Bluegrass Legend at its 2010 and 2011 Pioneers of Bluegrass Gatherings.[145]
In 2010, Franks performed at the Appalachian Regional Commission's annual conference.[146] That same year, he was nominated for a Diamond Award in the Top Bluegrass Artist category, alongside several other notable bluegrass performers and groups.[147]
Museum Exhibition and State Recognition
From 1996 to 2007, the Georgia Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Macon featured an exhibit on Randall Franks' career in its Skillet Licker Café section. This exhibit was displayed alongside those of other Georgia musicians, including Alan Jackson, Travis Tritt, and Trisha Yearwood.[148]
In 2013, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal presented Franks with a special commendation recognizing his community service and philanthropic efforts in the state. This commendation was awarded in conjunction with Franks receiving the Kiwanis International Distinguished Service Award.[149]

Charitable and Community Involvement[edit]
Randall Franks is involved in various charitable and community organizations. He serves as president of the Share America Foundation Randall Franks | Share America Foundation, which provides scholarships to youth continuing the musical arts of Appalachia through the Pearl and Floyd Franks Scholarship.
Franks has held leadership positions in several community organizations. He has served as Chairman for the Catoosa Citizens for Literacy in multiple terms (2002–04, 2007–09, 2022–23, 2023-24), an organization that operates the Catoosa County Learning Center to assist residents with literacy, GED preparation, and basic computer skills.[150]
He is the treasurer of the Catoosa County Local Emergency Planning Committee, which coordinates various community agencies for emergency response.[151]
Franks has been involved with the Georgia Production Partnership, a film industry organization, serving in various roles including Vice President and secretary.[152]
His community involvement extends to membership in several local organizations, including the Boynton Lions Club, Catoosa Family Collaborative, Nathan Anderson Cemetery Committee, Catoosa Fuller Center for Housing, Catoosa County Chamber of Commerce, and the Catoosa County Historical Society. He is a past president of the Kiwanis Club of Ringgold.[151]
In the music industry, Franks is a founder of the SouthEastern Bluegrass Music Association (SEBA) [153] and serves as a board advisor for the Southern Gospel Music Hall of Fame.[151] He also contributes as a field researcher for various museums in the Southern United States.

Public Service[edit]
Randall Franks held elected office in Ringgold, Georgia, serving on the city council for four terms from June 2009 to December 31, 2021. During his tenure, he occupied various leadership positions including Vice Mayor and Council Chairman. During his elected service, Franks volunteered in appointed roles within city government. He served as the Ringgold Downtown Development Authority Chairman and as vice chairman of the Ringgold Convention and Visitor's Bureau, with his combined service in these two positions spanning approximately a decade.[154]

References[edit]


^ "Randall Franks: Actor, Entertainer and Columnist". randallfranks.com. Archived from the original on 15 July 2011. Retrieved 5 February 2011.

^ "Augusta Farmers Coop - Stock Quotes".

^ "Randall Franks Attends 9th Annual Josie Awards". 27 October 2023.

^ "2022 Hof Inductees - Tri-State Gospel Music Hall of Fame".

^ "Artist/Actor Randall Franks Inducted Into America's Old Time Country Music Hall Of Fame". www.chattanoogan.com. 13 October 2019.

^ "Appalachian Entertainer and Actor Randall Franks Receives Independent Country Music Hall of Fame Induction". 30 April 2013.

^ "Randall Franks Honored at IBMM Pioneers of Bluegrass Gathering". July 2010.

^ Rome News-Tribune(USA)6 November 2004, pg. 3A, by: None listed, "Fiddler Franks makes music hall of fame"

^ name="sgnscoops.com">"Southern gospel, bluegrass and country legends honored in the Carolinas". 26 February 2010.

^ The Catoosa County News (USA)	29 December 2004, pg. 6B, by: Kevin Cummings, "Mr. Ambassador"

^ "Catoosa County Chamber presents annual awards". 24 March 2020.

^ "Randall Frank receives the first AirPlay Direct Evolution Grant". Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "The American's Creed".

^ "MarketMinute | Real Time Stock News". kvoa.marketminute.com.

^ "American Actor/Entertainer Randall Franks enjoys keeping cameras rolling in his home state". 18 December 2019.

^ "Randall Franks Acting". Randall Franks.

^ International Bluegrass (USA)July 1989, Vol. 4, Iss. 4, by: None listed, "Randy Franks - Desperate for Love"

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA) December 1988, Vol. Vol. 23, Iss. No. 6, pg. 15, by: None Listed, "Randy Franks - Blind Side"

^ "Randall Franks". IMDb.

^ Modern Screen's Who's Who in TV (USA), September 1990, Vol. No. 9, pg. 60, by: None listed, "In the Heat of the Night"

^ a b "Image Awards (NAACP) (1992)". IMDb. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ a b "Image Awards (NAACP) (1993)". IMDb. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Winners & Nominees 1990".

^ "Winners & Nominees Best Television Series - Drama".

^ Catoosa Weekly (USA)28 October 2009, pg. 6, by: Staff report, "Franks in Townsend film", a special for America's GMC cable

^ "Former NBC and CBS Actor and Entertainer Randall Franks joins the cast of "The Crickets Dance"". 17 June 2019.

^ a b "The Crickets Dance - IMDb". IMDb.

^ "Randall Franks Performs At Premiere Of New Film The Solomon Bunch - Chattanoogan.com". news.chattanoogan.com. Archived from the original on 2016-03-04.

^ "SGN Scoops Digital". Archived from the original on 2013-02-02. Retrieved 2012-11-17.

^ "Absolutely Gospel Music – Promoting Music that is Absolutely Gospel". absolutelygospel.com.

^ Country Focus (USA)August 1997, pg. 7, by: None listed, "Randall Franks and Parton star in 'Phoenix Falling'"

^ Country Focus (USA) January 1998, pg. 2, by: None listed, "Firebase Nine"

^ Power Source (USA)February 2001, by: None listed, "Country News - In the Heat of the Night Officer Randy Goode"

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA) November 1999, by: None listed, "Randall Franks, Sam Bush in Blue Valley Songbird"

^ "Lawless : Shia Labeouf et Tom Hardy seront à Cannes (Bande-annonce)". Archived from the original on 2012-09-22. Retrieved 2012-10-25.

^ The Nashville Musician (USA)April 2000, Vol. XV, Iss. 2, pg. 24, by: Walt Trott, "Franks tackles Ramblin' saga"

^ Chieftain & Toccoa Record (USA)20 November 1998, Vol. 125, Iss. 80, pg. 1, by: Patrick Neal, "'Doc' Scott's extreme home to be featured on cable show"

^ "The Ageless". IMDb.

^ "The American's Creed". randallfranks.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ A Badge or an Old Guitar: A Music City Murder Mystery. Peach Picked. November 2016.

^ a b "Actor/Entertainer Randall Franks is Seeing Faith in his new book". 16 June 2024.

^ Franks, Randall (October 13, 2023). "Former Ringgold Mayor Joe Barger And Randall Franks Pen "Testing The Metal Of Life"". The Pulse » Chattanooga's Arts & Entertainment Voice.

^ "Encouragers III: A Guiding Hand". Goodreads. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Actor/entertainer Randall Franks features amazing stories of giving Encouragement in latest book". Northwest Georgia News. 9 May 2015.

^ "Randall Franks Finds Encouragement in the Focus of Latest Book | Cybergrass Bluegrass Music News". www.cybergrass.com. Archived from the original on 2015-09-23.

^ "Whittlin' and Fiddlin' My Own Way: The Violet Hensley Story". 7 October 2014.

^ "SGN Scoops Digital". Archived from the original on 2014-07-14. Retrieved 2012-10-23.

^ Catoosa Life (USA)April 2010, Vol. 2, Iss. 8, pg. 42-43, by: None listed, "Actor co-authors cookbook - Stirring Up Additional Success with a Southern Flavor"

^ Country Weekly (USA)20 June 2004, pg. 72, by: Bob Paxman, "Recipes for Success"

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA)December 2008, by: WVS, "Snake Oil, Superstars and Me: The Story of Ramblin' 'Doc' Tommy Scott"

^ a b "Randall Franks | Author". randallfranks.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA)June 1988, pg. 66, by: Randy Franks, "We're Having a Revival"

^ The SEBA Breakdown (USA)October 1984, Vol. 1, Iss. 1, pg. 5, by: Randy Franks, "Diamond Lure (An Apple in the Bluegrass Eye)"

^ The Catoosa County News (USA)2 July 2003, pg. 8A, by: Staff reports, "Simply the best" and annual award articles July 2002, 2004-2009

^ The Nashville Musician (USA) January 2009, Vol. MMIX, Iss. 1, pg. 17, by: Walt Trott, "Book cites country's homespun humor traditions"

^ a b "Encouragers I: Finding the Light" Peach Picked Publishing by Randall Franks 2014

^ a b "Encouragers III: A Guiding Hand"’’ by Randall Franks, Peach Picked Publishing 2016

^ "Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters"’’ by Randall Franks, Peach Picked Publishing 2015

^ ” Snake Oil, Superstars, and Me”, by Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott, Randall Franks and Shirley Noe Swiesz

^ "Ramblin". tommyscott.net. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ The Monitor (USA)6 October 1999, pg. 1, by: None listed, "Attracts over 30,000"

^ a b c "Randall Franks | Bluegrass Music". randallfranks.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ McGrath, Greg. "Randall Franks to Co-host Grand Masters - AustralianBluegrass.com".

^ "Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters" Peach Picked Publishing by: Randall Franks - Randall Franks 2015

^ The Times (USA)22 April 1994, pg. 3D, by: Sandra Stringer, "Festival features fiddling, food, crafts"

^ The Catoosa County News (USA) 14 October 2009, by: None listed, "Randall Franks Trophy winner places at Grand Master Fiddler Championship"

^ "Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters" Peach Picked Publishing by: Randall Franks - Randall Franks Trophy winner places at Grand Master Fiddler Championship"

^ Georgia Film, Music & Digital Entertainment (USA)June 2009, Vol. 25, Iss. 2, pg. 8, by: None listed, "31st Annual Georgia Music Hall of Fame Awards Show"

^ "Third Day Enters Georgia Music Hall of Fame". CBN.com - The Christian Broadcasting Network. October 16, 2013. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Artist/Actor Randall Franks Brings Home Bluegrass Band Of The Year Award". www.chattanoogan.com. October 5, 2010. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Randall Franks Honored At 42nd Annual A.S.E. Awards". www.chattanoogan.com. August 30, 2016. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Randall Franks - Music Page on AirPlay Direct". airplaydirect.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for 30 years on radio and TV. Volume II". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Actor/Entertainer Randall Franks marks 40 years of Blue Grass Boy inspiration".

^ BMP - Bluegrass Music Profiles (USA)August 2008, pg. 40, by: None listed, "Blue Grass Boys Memories with Randall Franks"

^ Art of Field Recording Vol.I: Fifty Years of American Traditional Music

^ Pickens County Progress (USA)1 October 1987, "Georgia Marble Festival"

^ "Encouragers I: Finding the Light" Peach Picked Publishing by Randall Franks 2014 pp. 117-122

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA)February 1988, Vol. 22, Iss. no. 8, pg. 36-38, by: Wayne W. Daniel, "The Marksmen, Bluegrass Gospel, Straight and to the Point"

^ "Encouragers I: Finding the Light" Peach Picked Publishing by Randall Franks 2014 Pgs. 97-112

^ "Encouragers I: Finding the Light" Peach Picked Publishing by Randall Franks Pgs. 173-177

^ a b "Randall Franks | Concert of Celebration DVD". randallfranks.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Encouragers I: Finding the Light" Peach Picked Publishing by Randall Franks 2014 Pgs. 123-125

^ ‘’"Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters"’’ by Randall Franks, Peach Picked Publishing 2015 Pgs. 97-107

^ ‘’"Encouragers I: Finding the Light"’’ by Randall Franks, Peach Picked Publishing 2014

^ ‘’"Encouragers II: Walking with the Masters"’’ by Randall Franks, Peach Picked Publishing 2015

^ "Randall Franks - 30 Years On Radio And TV Volume II". Retrieved November 20, 2022 – via www.discogs.com.

^ Snake Oil, Superstars, and Me”, by Ramblin' "Doc" Tommy Scott, Randall Franks and Shirley Noe Swiesz

^ Chattanooga Times Free Press (USA)3 April 2009, by: Staff report, "'Appalachian Gathering' explores Doc Scott's career"

^ "Western Film, Country, Bluegrass and Gospel Music Pioneer and Early Grand Ole Opry Star Dies". www.chattanoogan.com. 6 October 2013.

^ "Encouragers III: A Guiding Hand" Peach Picked Publishing 2016 by Randall Franks Pgs. 185-189

^ "Alan Autry and Randall Franks Join Voices for Mississippi Moon CD". 17 October 2013.

^ "Encouragers III: A Guiding Hand" Peach Picked Publishing 2016 by Randall Franks

^ Thompson, Richard (December 26, 2011). "Banjo player "Shorty" Eager passes". Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Ivory halls bluegrass. Vol. 1". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Peach picked fiddle favorites". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Building on sand". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Pick of the peaches fiddlin'". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Golden River fiddlin'". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ Music City News (USA)June 1990, Vol. 27, Iss. 12, pg. 91, "Top LPs with Hot Tracks"

^ The Singing News (USA)March 1990, Vol. 20, Iss. 11, pg. 73, by: Jerry Kirksey, "Handshakes and Smiles"

^ Music City News (US) October 1991, Vol. 29, Iss. 3, pg. 29 and 36, by: Loudilla Johnson and Sandy Smith, "Handshakes and Smiles video"

^ "Randy Franks". Discogs. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Randall Franks | Sacred Sounds of Appalachia CD". randallfranks.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Tunes and tales from Tunnel Hill". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Comedy down home". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ ACM Country Music News (USA) January 2001, pg. 9, by: None listed, "Children in Need - Randall Franks and Sonny Shroyer join forces"

^ Fish (USA)December 2008, Vol. 9, Iss. 9, pg. 13, by: None listed, "Ringgold Depot album supports students"

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Early gospel favorites". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Down at Raccoon Creek". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Bluegrass Discography: Viewing full record for Early bluegrass recordings". www.ibiblio.org. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Share America Gifts". Archived from the original on 2013-02-01. Retrieved 2012-10-26.

^ "Alan Autry And Randall Franks Join Voices For Mississippi Moon CD". www.chattanoogan.com. October 17, 2013. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "SGM Radio: Actor/Entertainer Randall Franks "Mountain Opry Memories" CD raises funds for two non-profits". 25 October 2013.

^ "Randall Franks | Share America Gifts". randallfranks.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Randall Franks appears with former President Jimmy Carter". 20 April 2016.

^ "Randall Franks Releases New Christian Music and Comedy CD". 20 May 2016.

^ name="Randall Franks | Share America">"Randall Franks | Share America Gifts".

^ "Randall Franks | Share America Gifts".

^ a b c "AirPlay Direct". airplaydirect.com.

^ Catoosa walker news Northwest Georgia News[dead link]

^ "Randall Franks - Faith Will See Us Through on AirPlay Direct". airplaydirect.com. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ Cashbox Magazine, February 2023, Bluegrass Gospel Charts Top 50, Page 66; https://www.cashboxmagazine.org/_files/ugd/aa670e_0f0e822de2c440c788fa1bb54b927da8.pdf

^ https://airplaydirect.com/charts Top 50 APD Holiday / Christmas Albums

^ Marietta Daily Journal (USA)10 December 1987, by: Donna Harris, "Smyrna studio seeking that perfect sound"

^ Gospel Voice (USA)December 1991, pg. 6, by: Edith Kynard, "From TV to Country to bluegrass, stars join together for drug prevention project"

^ "Christmas CD Locally Benefits North Georgia Charity". 16 November 2012.

^ "In the Heat of the Night's".

^ "AirPlay Direct".

^ "Music Publishing". Archived from the original on 2012-06-13. Retrieved 2012-11-06.

^ The SEBA Breakdown (USA)	February 2005, Vol. 22, Iss. 2, pg. 3, by: None listed, "Randall Franks joins Atlanta Country Music Hall of Fame"

^ "PHOTOS: North Georgia Musicians Wall Of Fame". www.chattanoogan.com. April 26, 2009. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Previous Inductees". Independent Country Music Hall of Fame. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "Ringgold's Randal Franks into America's Old Time Country's Hall of Fame". The Catoosa County News. October 23, 2019. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ "2022 Hof Inductees - Tri-State Gospel Music Hall of Fame".

^ "Southern gospel, bluegrass and country legends honored in the Carolinas". 26 February 2010.

^ "Veterans, Patriotic Citizens awards for 2020 in Catoosa and Walker counties". 10 December 2020.

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA)1992, Vol. 27, Iss. 3, pg. 14, by: None listed, "Fiddlin' John Carson Award"

^ Country Focus (USA)November 1993, pg. 7, by: None listed, "Male Vocalist of the Year"

^ Bluegrass Unlimited (USA)	September 1995, pg. 17, by: Murphy Henry, "General Store Randy Franks - Cotton Carrier Award"

^ The Catoosa County News (USA)	30 August 2006, pg. 10A, by: None listed, "ASE Music Award Winners"

^ The Catoosa County News (USA)4 December 2002, pg. 8A, by: Staff reports, "Franks honored as a Kentucky Colonel"

^ The Nashville Musician (USA)October 2009, Vol. MMIX, Iss. 4, pg. 31, by: Walt Trott, "Songwriter of the Year Award"

^ The Georgia Kiwanian (USA)November 2010, Vol. 54, Iss. 2, pg. 11, by: None listed, "Artist/Actor Randall Franks brings home Bluegrass Band of the Year Award"

^ "Randall Franks Honored At IBMM Pioneers Of Bluegrass Gathering". www.chattanoogan.com. July 1, 2010. Retrieved November 20, 2022.

^ The Catoosa County News (USA)17 November 2010, pg. C1, by: None listed, "Appalachian Regional Commission highlights talents of Randall Franks"

^ "Randall Franks Receives Diamond Award Nomination". 8 April 2010.

^ IFCO Club House (USA) October 1996, pg. 26, by: Loudilla Johnson, "Randall Franks, Travis Tritt - Georgia Music Hall of Fame"

^ "Kiwanians Honor Entertainers James Rogers and Randall Franks for Community Service". www.chattanoogan.com. 16 August 2013.

^ The Catoosa County News (USA) 27 October 2004, pg. 13A, by: Staff reports, "Literacy organization honors contributors"

^ a b c "Randall Franks | Actor Entertainer Author Columnist". randallfranks.com.

^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2015-02-06. Retrieved 2015-02-06.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)

^ "Georgia bluegrass performer honored with founder's award".

^ Initiative Ringgold http://www.RandallFranks.com/Initiative-Ringgold/


External links[edit]
Official website
Official website
Randall Franks at AirPlayDirect.com



