American singer-songwriter
Ray BensonRay Benson performing in April 2008Background informationBirth nameRay Benson Seifert[1]Born (1951-03-16) March 16, 1951 (age 73)[2]OriginPhiladelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.Genres
Western swing
country
Occupations
Singer
songwriter
actor
voice actor
record producer
InstrumentsVocalsguitarYears active1969–presentWebsitewww.raybenson.comMusical artist
Ray Benson Seifert (born March 16, 1951) is an American musician, actor and voice actor who is the frontman of the Western swing band Asleep at the Wheel.


Biography[edit]
Ray Benson performing in April 2009
Benson was raised Jewish.[3] In 1970, Benson, a native of Philadelphia, formed Asleep at the Wheel with friends Lucky Oceans and Leroy Preston in Paw Paw, West Virginia. They were soon joined by Gene Dobkin, a classmate of Benson's at Antioch College, and Chris O'Connell. The group relocated to Austin in 1973 after a suggestion from Willie Nelson.
Since then, the group has released more than twenty albums and earned nine Grammy awards. Though the band's lineup has changed greatly over the years (about 90 people have been part of Asleep at the Wheel at some point), Benson has always remained at the helm as the band's driving force.
In addition to his work with Asleep at the Wheel, Benson is also an accomplished producer whose credits include albums by Dale Watson, Suzy Bogguss, Aaron Watson, James Hand and Carolyn Wonderland; also single tracks for Willie Nelson, Aaron Neville, Brad Paisley, Pam Tillis, Trace Adkins, Merle Haggard, and Vince Gill.
In 2003, Benson released his first solo album entitled Beyond Time.
Benson is also a founding member of the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, which raises money to help aging R&B artists, and a member of the board of directors of the SIMS Foundation, which provides low-cost mental health services to Austin musicians and their families.  He is also a trustee for the Texas chapter of NARAS, a board member of St Davids Community Health Foundation, and a board member and founding member of Health Alliance for Austin Musicians (HAAM).
Ray Benson is the former host of the Texas Music Scene TV show. In an interview, Benson said that when he was on the Board of Directors for Austin City Limits, he urged them to start a spin-off show that focused on Texas bands because Austin City Limits had grown beyond its original scope to become an international show. Later he had the opportunity to work with executive producer Tom Hoitsma to host the Texas Music Scene TV, which showcases Texas bands.[4]

"A Ride With Bob"[edit]
In the Spring of 2005, Ray Benson and Asleep At The Wheel began the production of "A Ride With Bob" that follows the travels of legendary singer/songwriter Bob Wills. A Ride With Bob includes the live performance of 15 of Wills’ best-known songs in a plot that interweaves Ray Benson’s present day with various stages in Wills’ storied career. The play continues to tour throughout the country.[citation needed]

Awards[edit]
Benson has been presented numerous awards throughout his career. Most recently, the 16th Annual Midsouth Regional Emmy Award for the making of "A Ride With Bob", an Honorary Junior Member of the United States Secret Service, and the Darrel K. Royal Music Patron Award by The Texas Heritage Songwriters' Association. In 2007, the Austin Chronicle recognized Benson for Male Vocals, Band of the Year, Songwriter, Record Producer, and for the Country Genre. Benson was inducted into the Austin Music Hall of Fame in 2002, was given The Texas Music Association Lifetime Achievement Award in 1996, and recognized as an Outstanding Producer by the National Academy of Recording Arts in 1988. He has also been given numerous Citations of Achievement by Broadcast Music, Inc. for his work in the country music field. Ray Benson has been one of the strongest names in Country Music for the last forty years. He has earned nine Grammy awards in four different decades.

Willie And The Wheel[edit]
In February 2009, Asleep at the Wheel and Willie Nelson released Willie and the Wheel, a western swing collaboration suggested by veteran producer Jerry Wexler. Nelson has a long-time interest in western swing and had toured with the band in 2007. Paul Shaffer and Vince Gill also perform on this album.[citation needed]

Filmography[edit]
Roadie (1980) ... Ray Benson
Why Christmas Trees Aren't Perfect (1990) ... Sir Woodrow (voice)
Never Leave Nevada (1990) ... Composer
Wild Texas Wind (1991) ... Ray Benson
Discography[edit]
See also: Asleep at the Wheel
Albums[edit]


Title

Album details


Beyond Time


Release date: June 24, 2003
Label: Audium/Koch Records


A Little Piece


Release date: January 21, 2014
Label: Bismeaux Records


Songs from a Stolen Spring (Compilation)[5]


Release date: October 18, 2014
Label: Valley Entertainment/Kirkelig Kulturverksted

Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Peak positions


US Country[6]


1991

"Four Scores and Seven Beers Ago"

67


Music videos[edit]


Year

Video

Director


1998

"Texas" (with Charlie Daniels and Lee Roy Parnell)

Peter Zavadil


1992

Live from Austintx

Gary Menotti








References[edit]


^ CMT.com : Ray Benson : Biography

^ "Allmusic - Ray Benson". All Media Guide. Retrieved 2007-12-17.

^ "Ray Benson (Asleep at the Wheel): The biggest Jew in country music [VIDEO]". 7 October 2008.

^ from an interview on episode 179 of the Americana Music Show, released February 17, 2014

^ "Songs From A Stolen Spring". Valley Entertainment. Retrieved 14 November 2014.

^ Whitburn, Joel (2013). Hot Country Songs 1944–2012. Record Research, Inc. p. 39. ISBN 978-0-89820-203-8.


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ray Benson.

http://www.asleepatthewheel.com
Ray Benson Interview at NAMM Oral History Collection (2011)
vteAsleep at the Wheel
Ray Benson
David Sanger
Katie Shore
Dennis Ludiker
Connor Forsyth
Josh Hoag
Flavio Pasquetto
Joey Colarusso
Lucky Oceans
LeRoy Preston
Danny Levin
Gene Dobkin
Chris O'Connell
Emily Paxton
Floyd Domino
Tony Garnier
Richard Casanova
Scott Hennige
Ed Vizard
Link Davis Jr.
Bill Mabry
Pat "Taco" Ryan
Johnny Nicholas
Fran Christina
Spencer Starnes
Dean DeMerritt
Maryann Price
Bobby Black
Brenda Burns
Falkner Evans
Paul Anastasio
Billy Estes
Dan Tyack
Michael Francis
Wally Murphy
Jann Browne
Steve Schwelling
Tom Anastasio
Roy McCrory
Richard Hormachea
Billy Cochran
Tim Alexander
Larry Franklin
Mike Grammar
Junior Brown
John Ely
David Dawson
Jon Mitchell
Ricky Turpin
David Earl Miller
Cindy Cashdollar
Tommy Beavers
Barbara Lamb
Monty Gaylord
Jason Roberts
Chris Booher
Rosie Flores
John Michael Whitby
Jim Murphy
Haydn Vitera
Eddie Rivers
Elizabeth McQueen
Walt Roberts
Dan Walton
Jay Reynolds
Emily Gimble
Chloe Feoranzo
Studio albums
Comin' Right at Ya
Asleep at the Wheel
Texas Gold
Wheelin' and Dealin'
The Wheel
Collision Course
Framed
Pasture Prime
10
Western Standard Time
Keepin' Me Up Nights
The Wheel Keeps on Rollin'
Merry Texas Christmas, Y'all
The Very Best of Asleep at the Wheel
Hang Up My Spurs
Asleep at the Wheel Remembers the Alamo
Reinventing the Wheel
Willie and the Wheel (with Willie Nelson)
New Routes
Half a Hundred Years
Tribute albums
Tribute to the Music of Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys
Ride with Bob: A Tribute to Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys
Still the King: Celebrating the Music of Bob Wills and His Texas Playboys
Live albums
Served Live
Greatest Hits: Live & Kickin'
Back to the Future Now: Live at Arizona Charlie's, Las Vegas
Live at Billy Bob's Texas
Live from Austin, TX
Compilations
Swing Time
Route 66
The Swingin' Best of Asleep at the Wheel
Extended plays
Better Times
Singles
"Choo Choo Ch'Boogie"
"The Letter That Johnny Walker Read"
"Route 66 "
"The House of Blue Lights "
"Walk On By"
"Hot Rod Lincoln"
"Corrine, Corrina"
"Lay Down Sally"
Other songs
"Boot Scootin' Boogie"
"Cherokee Maiden"
"Roly Poly"
Related articles
Band members
Discography

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataSpainIsraelArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy Awards



