Stan E. Munsey (born July 10, 1955) is an American songwriter and one of several writer-musicians to emerge from the Muscle Shoals, Alabama music scene.

Biography[edit]
Munsey was born in Easton, Pennsylvania on July 10, 1955, and spent a significant number of his early years in Sheffield, Alabama.[1]
He is best known as a musician and songwriter, with songs on major recordings that have sold more than 12 million worldwide, and has penned tunes for Alabama, Shenandoah, The Statler Brothers, Glen Campbell, Shania Twain, Tim McGraw, The Kinleys, Butch Baker, Lorrie Morgan, Suzy Bogguss, Barbara Mandrell, Lee Greenwood, Jonathan Edwards, Mel McDaniel, Charly McClain, Wayne Massey, Ty Herndon, Collin Raye, John Michael Montgomery, Marty Raybon, and Marie Osmond.[2]
As a musician, the first band Munsey recorded with was "The Chessmen", who released a single on the Paradox records label which got modest radio airplay in 1970.  He played keys with numerous bands and artists throughout the seventies and shared his talents with the likes of Percy Sledge and Jim Stafford before making his mark in Nashville, Tennessee as a songwriter.
Munsey took some time off from his songwriting to tour with Los Angeles-based Wendy Waldman on Dan Fogelberg's Exile tour. He later signed with Charley Pride's publishing company where he penned songs for Lorrie Morgan and Tim McGraw. Munsey scored big with the McGraw single and title cut of the CD, "All I Want Is a Life", which reached the top of the Billboard Country charts in 1995 and earned him a BMI Million-Air award.[2] He was the keyboardist for Grammy Award-winning country music group Shenandoah, having joined during the 1990s, until his departure in 2018.[3][4]

References[edit]


^ "Alabama's Music Achievers". Alabama Music Hall of Fame. Archived from the original on February 24, 2012. Retrieved November 12, 2011.

^ a b Whitburn, Joel (2004). The Billboard Book Of Top 40 Country Hits: 1944-2006, Second edition. Record Research. p. 227.

^ "Bios". Shenandoah Official Website. Archived from the original on February 4, 2005. Retrieved November 12, 2011.

^ "Shenandoah". Allmusic. Retrieved November 12, 2011.


vteShenandoah
Chris Lucas (Roach)
Mike McGuire
Jamie Michael
Stan Munsey
Marty Raybon
Ralph Ezell
Stan Thorn
Rocky Thacker
Curtis Wright
Brent Lamb
Mike Folsom
Jim Seales
Doug Stokes
Jimmy Yeary
Studio albums
Shenandoah
The Road Not Taken
Extra Mile
Long Time Comin'
Under the Kudzu
In the Vicinity of the Heart
Compilation albums
Greatest Hits
Super Hits
Notable singles
"Stop the Rain"
"She Doesn't Cry Anymore"
"Mama Knows"
"The Church on Cumberland Road"
"Sunday in the South"
"Two Dozen Roses"
"See If I Care"
"Next to You, Next to Me"
"Ghost in This House"
"I Got You"
"The Moon Over Georgia"
"Rock My Baby"
"Hey Mister (I Need This Job)"
"Leavin's Been a Long Time Comin'"
"Janie Baker's Love Slave"
"I Want to Be Loved Like That"
"If Bubba Can Dance (I Can Too)"
"Somewhere in the Vicinity of the Heart"
"Darned If I Don't (Danged If I Do)"
"Heaven Bound (I'm Ready)"
Related articles
Discography
Raybon Brothers
Raybon Brothers
"Butterfly Kisses"

Authority control databases InternationalVIAFWorldCatNationalUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainz



