The Notorious Cherry BombsAlso known asThe Cherry BombsOriginU.S.GenresCountryYears active1980–1988, 2003–2004LabelsUniversal SouthSpinoff ofThe Hot BandPast membersEddie BayersRichard BennettTony BrownRodney CrowellHank DeVitoVince GillEmory Gordy Jr.John HobbsLarrie LondinMichael Rhodes
The Notorious Cherry Bombs, originally called The Cherry Bombs, was an American country music supergroup founded by singer-songwriter Rodney Crowell in 1980. A former member of Emmylou Harris's Hot Band, Crowell picked several former Hot Band members as his backing band, which he named The Cherry Bombs. They made their debut as Rodney's backing band on his 1980 album But What Will the Neighbors Think.[1]
Although they served as Crowell's backing band for several years, The Cherry Bombs did not record an album of their own until a 2004 reunion (at which point "Notorious" had been added to the band's name).[1] The album, also titled The Notorious Cherry Bombs, produced a hit on the country music charts in "It's Hard to Kiss the Lips at Night That Chew Your Ass Out All Day Long".


The Cherry Bombs[edit]
Rodney Crowell was a founding member of country singer Emmylou Harris's Hot Band; when he began his own solo career in the early 1980s, Crowell picked several former Hot Band members as his backing band, whom he named The Cherry Bombs. The initial members comprised Vince Gill (background vocals, electric guitar), Hank DeVito (steel guitar), Emory Gordy Jr. (bass guitar), Richard Bennett (electric guitar), Tony Brown (keyboards), and Larrie Londin (drums).[1]
As The Cherry Bombs, the band backed both Crowell and Rosanne Cash, to whom Crowell was married at the time. After Crowell and Cash divorced, the band's members began leaving.[1] Gill began a solo career in country music in the late 1980s, while Brown became a record producer for MCA Records. Londin died from a heart attack in 1992.[1] Gordy married country singer Patty Loveless and served as her producer, while Bennett and DeVito found work as studio musicians.

Return as The Notorious Cherry Bombs[edit]
In 2003, several of the former members of The Cherry Bombs, including Gill and Crowell, re-united. Emory Gordy Jr. opted not to participate in the reunited group, which by then comprised Eddie Bayers (drums), Richard Bennett (electric guitar, bouzouki, cavaquinho), Hank DeVito (steel guitar, Dobro), Tony Brown (piano, keyboards), John Hobbs (piano, keyboards), and Michael Rhodes (bass guitar), with Gill and Crowell alternating as lead singers. A year later, the band was signed to a record deal with Universal South Records to record their first album as an actual band. Due to legal concerns, the band was renamed The Notorious Cherry Bombs.[1][2] Their self-titled album produced a minor hit on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks charts that year in "It's Hard to Kiss the Lips at Night That Chew Your Ass Out All Day Long". This was followed by "Let It Roll, Let It Ride" which failed to chart. Also included on the album was "Making Memories of Us", which had previously been recorded by Tracy Byrd and would later become a Number One hit when Keith Urban released his own version in 2005. After the release of their second single, The Notorious Cherry Bombs disbanded again, and Crowell and Gill resumed their solo careers.

Discography[edit]
Studio albums[edit]


Title

Album details

Peak chart positions


US Country

US

USHeat


The Notorious Cherry Bombs


Release date: July 27, 2004
Label: Universal South Records

23

135

4


Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Peak positions

Album


US Country


2004

"It's Hard to Kiss the Lips at NightThat Chew Your Ass Out All Day Long"

47

The Notorious Cherry Bombs


2005

"Let It Roll, Let It Ride"

—


"—" denotes releases that did not chart


Music videos[edit]


Year

Video

Director


2004

"It's Hard to Kiss the Lips at NightThat Chew Your Ass Out All Day Long"

Eric Welch

Awards[edit]


Year

Association

Category

Nominated work

Result[3]


2004

Grammy Awards

Grammy Award for Best Country Song

"It's Hard to Kiss the Lips at Night That Chew Your Ass Out All Day Long"

Nominated


Grammy Award for Best Country Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal

Nominated

References[edit]


^ a b c d e f Ankeny, Jason. "allmusic ((( The Notorious Cherry Bombs > Biography )))". Allmusic. Retrieved 2007-12-01.

^ Hill, Cheryl Harvey. "The Notorious Cherry Bombs - Self-titled Album review". Country Stars Online. Retrieved 2007-12-01.

^ "Search results for Vince Gill". Grammy.com. Retrieved April 18, 2024.


External links[edit]
Vince Gill official website
Rodney Crowell official website
vteRodney CrowellStudio albums
Ain't Living Long Like This
But What Will the Neighbors Think
Rodney Crowell
Street Language
Diamonds & Dirt
Keys to the Highway
Life Is Messy
Let the Picture Paint Itself
Jewel of the South
The Houston Kid
Fate's Right Hand
The Outsider
Sex & Gasoline
Old Yellow Moon
Tarpaper Sky
The Traveling Kind
Close Ties
The Chicago Sessions
Compilation albums
The Rodney Crowell Collection
Greatest Hits
Singles
"Elvira"
"Song for the Life"
"(Now and Then There's) A Fool Such as I"
"Ashes by Now"
"Ain't No Money"
"It's Such a Small World"
"I Couldn't Leave You If I Tried"
"She's Crazy for Leavin'"
"After All This Time"
"Above and Beyond"
"Many a Long & Lonesome Highway"
"If Looks Could Kill"
"My Past Is Present"
"Now That We're Alone"
"Lovin' All Night"
"What Kind of Love"
"Please Remember Me"
"I Walk the Line Revisited"
Other songs
"The Answer Is Yes"
"Heartbroke"
"I Ain't Living Long Like This"
"Leaving Louisiana in the Broad Daylight"
"Making Memories of Us"
"Queen of Hearts"
"Voilá, An American Dream"
Related articles
Discography
The Notorious Cherry Bombs
The Notorious Cherry Bombs

vteVince GillStudio albums
The Things That Matter
The Way Back Home
When I Call Your Name
Pocket Full of Gold
I Still Believe in You
When Love Finds You
High Lonesome Sound
The Key
Let's Make Sure We Kiss Goodbye
Next Big Thing
These Days
Guitar Slinger
Bakersfield
Down to My Last Bad Habit
Okie
Compilation albums
Souvenirs
Icon
Christmas albums
Let There Be Peace on Earth
Breath of Heaven: A Christmas Collection
Extended plays
Turn Me Loose
Notable singles
"If It Weren't for Him"
"Oklahoma Borderline"
"Cinderella"
"Let's Do Something"
"Everybody's Sweetheart"
"Never Alone"
"Oklahoma Swing"
"When I Call Your Name"
"Never Knew Lonely"
"Pocket Full of Gold"
"Liza Jane"
"Look at Us"
"Take Your Memory with You"
"I Still Believe in You"
"Don't Let Our Love Start Slippin' Away"
"No Future in the Past"
"One More Last Chance"
"Tryin' to Get Over You"
"Whenever You Come Around"
"What the Cowgirls Do"
"When Love Finds You"
"Which Bridge to Cross (Which Bridge to Burn)"
"You Better Think Twice"
"Go Rest High on That Mountain"
"High Lonesome Sound"
"Worlds Apart"
"Pretty Little Adriana"
"A Little More Love"
"You and You Alone"
"If You Ever Have Forever in Mind"
"Don't Come Cryin' to Me"
"My Kind of Woman/My Kind of Man"
"Let's Make Sure We Kiss Goodbye"
"Feels Like Love"
"Next Big Thing"
Guest singles
"The Heart Won't Lie"
"House of Love"
"I Will Always Love You"
"It's Not Over"
"If You Ever Leave Me"
"Building Bridges"
"Don't Rush"
"I Just Can't Help Believing"
"Sober Saturday Night"
"Dear Hate"
"Heaven by Then"
Other songs
"Here We Are"
"I Can't Tell You Why"
Related articles
Discography
Awards and nominations
Here Today
Eagles
Pure Prairie League
The Time Jumpers
The Notorious Cherry Bombs
The Notorious Cherry Bombs

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFNationalUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainz



