American singer-songwriter (born 1992)
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for biographies. Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.Find sources: "Alyssa Micaela" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Alyssa Micaela" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Alyssa MicaelaBirth nameAlyssa Micaela BagleyBorn (1992-05-28) May 28, 1992 (age 32)Odessa, TexasGenresCountryWebsitealyssamicaela.comMusical artist
Alyssa Micaela (born May 28, 1992) is an American country music singer and songwriter. Her debut studio EP, Cowboys Like That, was released on March 10, 2017.

Early life[edit]
Alyssa Micaela was born on May 28, 1992, in the oil town of Odessa, Texas. She loves performing bilingual covers of Freddy Fender and Roy Orbison. Growing up she always admired Selena.[1]

Career[edit]
When Micaela was a teenager, she met Liz Rose, who played a huge role in getting Micaela to move to Tennessee and start her musical career. Rose has mentored Micaela, and co- wrote half of the songs on the Cowboys Like That EP.[1]
Micaela has opened for artists such as Eli Young Band, Willie Nelson, Dierks Bentley, and Sam Hunt. Liz Rose Music and Warner/Chappell Music signed publishing agreements with Micaela.[2]
Micaela's debut single and most popular song, "Getaway Car", was made into a music video that was aired on CMT in 2016.[3] The song was featured on Spotify's Hot Country playlist, garnering over 3 million streams. Her second single, "Clean Break," was also featured on Spotify's Hot Country playlist as well as New Boots and Wild Country, garnering over 2.4 million streams.

References[edit]


^ a b Freeman, Jon, Joseph Hudak, Marissa Moss, and Person. "10 New Country Artists You Need to Know: April 2017." Rolling Stone. N.p., 11 Apr. 2017. Web. 07 July 2017.

^ "Alyssa Micaela Signs With Warner/Chappell, Liz Rose Music." MusicRow - Nashville's Music Industry Publication - News, Songs From Music City. N.p., 28 Mar. 2016. Web. 07 July 2017.

^ "Alyssa Micaela | Getaway Car | Music Video." CMT. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 July 2017.


Authority control databases: Artists MusicBrainz



