American bluegrass musician, songwriter (1911–1996)
This article is about the American musician. For other people named Bill Monroe, see Bill Monroe (disambiguation).


Bill MonroeMonroe (left) and his brother Charlie in 1936Background informationBirth nameWilliam Smith MonroeBorn(1911-09-13)September 13, 1911Rosine, Kentucky, U.S.OriginKentucky, U.S.DiedSeptember 9, 1996(1996-09-09) (aged 84)Springfield, Tennessee, U.S.GenresBluegrassgospelcountrybluesfolkInstrument(s)Mandolin, guitarYears active1927–1996LabelsBluebirdColumbiaDeccaMCARCA VictorMusical artist
William Smith Monroe (/mənˈroʊ/ mən-ROH; September 13, 1911[1] – September 9, 1996)[2] was an American mandolinist, singer, and songwriter, and created the bluegrass music genre. Because of this, he is often called the "Father of Bluegrass".[3]
The genre takes its name from his band, the Blue Grass Boys, who named their group for the bluegrass of Monroe's home state of Kentucky. He described the genre as "Scottish bagpipes and ole-time fiddlin'. It's Methodist and Holiness and Baptist. It's blues and jazz, and it has a high lonesome sound."[4]


Early life[edit]
Monroe was born on his family's farm near Rosine, Kentucky, the youngest of eight children of James Buchanan "Buck" and Malissa (Vandiver) Monroe. His mother and her brother, James Pendleton "Pen" Vandiver, were both musically talented, and Monroe and his family grew up playing and singing at home.[1]
Bill was of Scottish and English heritage. Because his older brothers Birch and Charlie already played the fiddle and guitar, Bill was resigned to playing the less desirable mandolin.[1] He recalled that his brothers insisted that he remove four of the mandolin's eight strings so he would not play too loudly.[citation needed]
Monroe's mother died when he was ten, and his father died six years later.[1] Eventually, his brothers and sisters moved away, leaving Monroe to bounce between uncles and aunts until finally settling in with his disabled uncle Pendleton Vandiver, whom he often accompanied when Vandiver played the fiddle at dances. This experience inspired one of Monroe's most famous compositions, "Uncle Pen", recorded in 1950,[1] and the 1972 album Bill Monroe's Uncle Pen. On that album, Monroe recorded a number of traditional fiddle tunes he had often heard performed by Vandiver. Vandiver has been credited with giving Monroe "a repertoire of tunes that sank into Bill's aurally trained memory and a sense of rhythm that seeped into his bones."[5]
Also significant in Monroe's musical life was Arnold Shultz, an influential fiddler and guitarist who introduced Monroe to the blues.[6][7]

Professional career[edit]
In 1929, Monroe moved to Indiana to work at an oil refinery with his brothers Birch and Charlie.[1] Together with a friend, Larry Moore, they formed the "Monroe Brothers", to play at local dances and house parties.
Birch and Moore soon left the group, and Bill and Charlie carried on as a duo, eventually winning spots performing live on radio stations, first in Indiana and then, sponsored by Texas Crystals, on several radio broadcasts in Shenandoah, Iowa, Nebraska, South Carolina and North Carolina from 1934 to 1936.[1] RCA Victor signed the Monroe Brothers to a recording contract in 1936.[1] They scored an immediate hit single with the gospel song "What Would You Give in Exchange For Your Soul?" and ultimately recorded 60 tracks for Victor's Bluebird label between 1936 and 1938.[8]
After the Monroe Brothers disbanded in 1938, Bill Monroe formed The Kentuckians in Little Rock, Arkansas, but the group only lasted for three months.[1] Monroe then left Little Rock for Atlanta, Georgia, to form the first edition of the Blue Grass Boys,[1] with singer/guitarist Cleo Davis, fiddler Art Wooten, and bassist Amos Garren.
In October 1939, Monroe successfully auditioned for a regular spot on the Grand Ole Opry, impressing Opry founder George D. Hay with his energetic performance of Jimmie Rodgers's "Mule Skinner Blues".[1] Monroe recorded that song, along with seven others, at his first solo recording session for RCA Victor in 1940; by this time, the Blue Grass Boys consisted of singer/guitarist Clyde Moody, fiddler Tommy Magness, and bassist Bill Wesbrooks.[9]
While the fast tempos and instrumental virtuosity characteristic of bluegrass music are apparent even on these early tracks, Monroe was still experimenting with the sound of his group. He seldom sang lead vocals on his Victor recordings, often preferring to contribute high tenor harmonies as he had in the Monroe Brothers. A 1945 session for Columbia Records featured an accordion, soon dropped from the band. Most importantly, Monroe added banjo player David "Stringbean" Akeman to the Blue Grass Boys in 1942.[1] Akeman played the instrument in a relatively primitive style and was rarely featured in instrumental solos. Monroe's pre-1946 recordings represent a transitional style between the string-band tradition from which he came and the musical innovation to follow.

"Original Bluegrass Band" and Monroe's heyday as a star[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Bill Monroe" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Key developments occurred in Monroe's music with the addition of Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs to the Blue Grass Boys in December 1945.[1] Flatt played a solid rhythm guitar style that would help to set the course for bluegrass timing. Scruggs played the banjo with a distinctive three-finger picking style that immediately caused a sensation among Opry audiences. Flatt and Scruggs joined a highly accomplished group that included fiddler Howdy Forrester and bassist Joe Forrester and would soon include fiddler Chubby Wise and bassist Howard Watts, who often performed under the name "Cedric Rainwater".
In retrospect, this line-up of the Blue Grass Boys has been dubbed the "Original Bluegrass Band", as the music finally included all the elements that characterize bluegrass music, including breakneck tempos, sophisticated vocal harmony arrangements, and impressive instrumental proficiency demonstrated in solos or "breaks" on the mandolin, banjo, and fiddle. By this time, Monroe had acquired the 1923 Gibson F5 model "Lloyd Loar" mandolin, which became his trademark instrument for the remainder of his career.[10]
The 28 songs recorded by this version of the Blue Grass Boys for Columbia Records in 1946 and 1947 soon became classics of the genre, including "Toy Heart", "Blue Grass Breakdown", "Molly and Tenbrooks", "Wicked Path of Sin", "My Rose of Old Kentucky", "Little Cabin Home on the Hill", and Monroe's most famous song "Blue Moon of Kentucky",[1] which was recorded by Elvis Presley in 1954, appearing as the B-side of his first single for Sun Records. Monroe gave his blessing to Presley's rock and roll cover of the song, originally a slow ballad in waltz time, and re-recorded it himself with a faster arrangement after Presley's version became a hit.[1] Several gospel-themed numbers are credited to the "Blue Grass Quartet", which featured four-part vocal arrangements accompanied solely by mandolin and guitar – Monroe's usual practice when performing "sacred" songs.
Both Flatt and Scruggs left Monroe's band in early 1948, soon forming their own group, the Foggy Mountain Boys. In 1949, after signing with Decca Records, Monroe entered what has been called the "golden age" of his career[11] with what many consider the classic "high lonesome" version of the Blue Grass Boys, featuring the lead vocals and rhythm guitar of Jimmy Martin, the banjo of Rudy Lyle (replacing Don Reno), and fiddlers such as Merle "Red" Taylor, Charlie Cline, Bobby Hicks, and Vassar Clements.
This band recorded a number of bluegrass classics, including "My Little Georgia Rose", "On and On", "Memories of Mother and Dad", and "Uncle Pen", as well as instrumentals such as "Roanoke", "Big Mon", "Stoney Lonesome", "Get Up John", and the mandolin feature "Raw Hide". Carter Stanley joined the Blue Grass Boys as guitarist for a short time in 1951 during a period when The Stanley Brothers had temporarily disbanded.
On January 16, 1953, Monroe was critically injured in a two-car wreck.[1] He and "Bluegrass Boys" bass player, Bessie Lee Mauldin, were returning home from a fox hunt north of Nashville. On highway 31-W, near White House, their car was struck by a drunken driver. Monroe, who had suffered injuries to his back, left arm and nose, was rushed to General Hospital in Nashville. It took him almost four months to recover and resume touring.[1] In the meantime Charlie Cline and Jimmy Martin kept the band together.[12][page needed]
By the late 1950s, however, Monroe's commercial fortunes had begun to slip.[1] The rise of rock-and-roll and the development of the "Nashville sound" in mainstream country music both represented threats to the viability of bluegrass. While still a mainstay on the Grand Ole Opry, Monroe found diminishing success on the singles charts, and struggled to keep his band together in the face of declining demand for live performances.

Folk revival[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Monroe's fortunes began to improve during the American folk music revival of the early 1960s. Many college students and other young people were beginning to discover Monroe, associating his style more with traditional folk music than with the country-and-western genre with which it had previously been identified.
The word "bluegrass" first appeared around this time to describe the sound of Monroe and similar artists such as Flatt and Scruggs, the Stanley Brothers, Reno and Smiley, Jim and Jesse, and the Osborne Brothers. While Flatt and Scruggs immediately recognized the potential for a lucrative new audience in cities and on college campuses in the North, Monroe was slower to respond. Under the influence of Ralph Rinzler, a young musician and folklorist from New Jersey who briefly became Monroe's manager in 1963, Monroe gradually expanded his geographic reach beyond the traditional southern country music circuit.[1] Rinzler was also responsible for a lengthy profile and interview in the influential folk music magazine Sing Out! that first publicly referred to Monroe as the "father" of bluegrass. Accordingly, at the first bluegrass festival organized by Carlton Haney at Roanoke, Virginia in 1965, Bill Monroe was the central figure.[1]
In 1964, before the Grateful Dead got together, Jerry Garcia caravanned across the country from California to tag along with Monroe.[13]
The growing national popularity of Monroe's music during the 1960s was also apparent in the increasingly diverse background of musicians recruited into his band. Non-southerners who served as Blue Grass Boys during this period included banjo player Bill Keith and singer/guitarist Peter Rowan from Massachusetts,[1] fiddler Gene Lowinger from New Jersey, banjo player Lamar Grier from Maryland, banjo player Steve Arkin from New York, and singer/guitarist Roland White and fiddler Richard Greene from California.

Later years[edit]
Bill Monroe's Bluegrass Hall of Fame Museum in Morgantown, Indiana. He founded the Hall in 1984.
Even after the folk revival faded in the mid-1960s, it left a loyal audience for bluegrass music. Bluegrass festivals became common, with fans often traveling long distances to see a number of different acts over several days of performances.
In 1967, Monroe himself founded an annual bluegrass festival at Bean Blossom in southern Indiana, a park he had purchased in 1951,[1] which routinely attracted a crowd of thousands; a double LP from the festival featuring Monroe, Jimmy Martin, Lester Flatt, and Jim and Jesse was released in 1973. The annual Bill Monroe Bean Blossom Bluegrass Festival is now the world's oldest continuously running annual bluegrass festival.[14]
Monroe's compositions during his later period were largely instrumentals, including "Jerusalem Ridge", "Old Dangerfield" (originally spelled Daingerfield after the town in East Texas),[15] and "My Last Days on Earth"; he settled into a new role as a musical patriarch who continued to influence younger generations of musicians. Monroe recorded two albums of duets in the 1980s; the first featured collaborations with country stars such as Emmylou Harris, Waylon Jennings, and The Oak Ridge Boys, while the second paired him with other prominent bluegrass musicians.[1] A 1989 live album celebrated his 50th year on the Grand Ole Opry.[1] Monroe also kept a hectic touring schedule.[1] On April 7, 1990, Monroe performed for Farm Aid IV in Indianapolis, Indiana along with Willie Nelson, John Mellencamp, Neil Young and with many other artists.[16]

Death[edit]
Monroe's last performance occurred on March 15, 1996. He ended his touring and playing career in April, following a stroke. Monroe died on September 9, 1996, in Springfield, Tennessee, four days before his 85th birthday.[2][17]

Legacy and influence[edit]
According to Ralph Rinzler, Bill Monroe impacted music in the following five ways:[18]

When others were going electric, Bill created a space for an acoustic string band tradition to continue to grow and develop within country music.
He developed a distinct vocal tradition - the "high lonesome" sound.
He established the mandolin as a virtuoso string band instrument
He composed a diverse repertoire of songs and instrumental tunes which have become standard fare among bluegrass, country, and some pop musicians.
More than any other musician of his time, he skillfully infused country music with archaic tonal subtlety, including Anglo-Scots-Irish and Blues influences.
Bill Monroe was made an honorary Kentucky Colonel in 1966.[12][page needed] He was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1970,[1] the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1971,[1] and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (as an "early influence") in 1997. Jimmie Rodgers, Bob Wills, Hank Williams Sr., and Johnny Cash are the only other performers honored in all three. As the "father of bluegrass", he was also an inaugural inductee into the International Bluegrass Music Hall of Honor in 1991. Monroe was a recipient of a 1982 National Heritage Fellowship awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which is the United States government's highest honor in the folk and traditional arts.[19] That year's fellowships were the first bestowed by the NEA. In 1993, he received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, and he was awarded the National Medal of Arts in 1995. His well-known song "Blue Moon of Kentucky" has been covered not only by bluegrass but also rock and country artists, most notably Elvis Presley, Paul McCartney, and Patsy Cline. In 2003, CMT had Bill Monroe ranked No. 16 on CMT 40 Greatest Men of Country Music.
Artists that claimed to be influenced by or to be playing the bluegrass genre were often bullied by Bill Monroe. He always considered himself the father and caretaker of bluegrass. He would often say of new bands that did not perform to his standards, "That ain't no part of nothin'." Even those who question the scope of bluegrass refer to Monroe as a "musical giant" and recognize that "there would be no bluegrass without Bill Monroe."[20]
More than 150 musicians played in the Blue Grass Boys over the nearly 60 years of Monroe's performing career. Monroe tended to recruit promising young musicians who served an apprenticeship with him before becoming accomplished artists in their own right. Some of Monroe's band members who went on to greater prominence include singer/guitarists Clyde Moody, Lester Flatt, Jack Cook, Mac Wiseman, Jimmy Martin, Carter Stanley, Del McCoury, Peter Rowan, Roland White, Roland Dunn and Doug Green; banjo players Earl Scruggs, Bob Black, Butch Robins, Buck Trent, Don Reno, Stringbean, Sonny Osborne, and Bill Keith; and fiddlers Tommy Magness, Chubby Wise, Vassar Clements, Byron Berline, Kenny Baker, Bobby Hicks, Gordon Terry, Randall Franks and Glen Duncan. Monroe also regularly performed with flat-picking guitar virtuoso Doc Watson.
Modern bluegrass singer and mandolin player Ricky Skaggs was influenced by Monroe. Skaggs was only six years old, in 1960, when he first got to perform on stage with Monroe and his band at the high school in Martha, Kentucky. He stated, "I think Bill Monroe's importance to American music is as important as someone like Robert Johnson was to blues, or Louis Armstrong. He was so influential: I think he's probably the only musician that had a whole style of music named after his band."[21]
In 1999, the portion of Indiana State Road 135 running from Morgantown through to Nashville, Indiana was dedicated to Bill Monroe and is known as the Bill Monroe Memorial Highway.[22]

Discography[edit]
Main article: Bill Monroe discography
References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa Colin Larkin, ed. (1992). The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music (1st ed.). Guinness Publishing. pp. 1729–1730. ISBN 0-85112-939-0.

^ a b Flippo, Chet (September 21, 1996). "Industry Mourns Father of Bluegrass". Billboard. pp. 6, 79. Retrieved June 13, 2014.

^ Klein, Bradley. "Bill Monroe: Celebrating The Father Of Bluegrass At 100". NPR.org. NPR. Retrieved September 18, 2011.

^ "Bill Monroe". 2022 Monroe Mandolin Camp. Retrieved November 12, 2022.

^ Smith, Richard D. (2001). Can't You Hear Me Callin': the Life of Bill Monroe, Father of Bluegrass. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Da Capo Press. p. 27. ISBN 978-0-316-80381-6. OCLC 42690222.

^ Robert Cantwell (2003). Bluegrass Breakdown: The Making of the Old Southern Sound. University of Illinois Press. pp. 30–32. ISBN 9780252071171.

^ The Father of Bluegrass Music, DVD Documentary (1993)

^ "Bill Monroe: American Musician". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved January 30, 2018.

^ "Bill Monroe's Blue Grass Boys". Doodah.net. Retrieved January 20, 2018.

^ Rosenberg, Neil V. (2005). BLUEGRASS: A History. Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois Press; ISBN 0-252-07245-6

^ Bill Monroe and Bluegrass by Roughstock staff, January 27, 2009 "Roughstock's History of Country Music - Bill Monroe and Bluegrass". Archived from the original on June 20, 2009. Retrieved June 7, 2009.

^ a b Rosenberg, Neil V.; Wolfe, Charles K. (1989). The music of Bill Monroe. Music in American life. Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press (published 2007). ISBN 978-0-252-05623-9. JSTOR 10.5406/jj.13944080. OCLC 1431193963.

^ "Jerry Garcia's Bluegrass Roots". Gardenandgun.com. May 3, 2018. Retrieved August 8, 2021.

^ Collector, Representative (9th District) Baron P. Hill-- (August 8, 2000). "Bill Monroe Bluegrass Festival in Brown County". Lcweb2.loc.gov. Archived from the original on September 5, 2008. Retrieved August 8, 2021.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)

^ "Stoney Lonesome Fiddle Book", by Stacy Phillips

^ Mitchell, Dawn (June 18, 2007). "RetroIndy: Farm Aid IV raised a bumper crop of cash". The Indianapolis Star. Retrieved May 8, 2024.

^ Jon Pareles (September 10, 1996). "Bill Monroe Dies at 84; Fused Musical Roots Into Bluegrass". The New York Times. p. D 22. Retrieved October 31, 2021.

^ Rinzler, Ralph (1993). Live Recordings 1963-1980: Off the Record Volume 2 (PDF) (Media notes). Smithsonian Folkways. p. 7.

^ "NEA National Heritage Fellowships 1982". www.arts.gov. National Endowment for the Arts. Archived from the original on September 29, 2020. Retrieved November 22, 2020.

^ Teachout, Terry (September 17, 2001). "Kentucky Troubadour: A biography of Bill Monroe and the bluegrass music he invented". The New York Times. Retrieved January 20, 2018.

^ Du Noyer, Paul (2003). The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Music (1st ed.). Fulham, London: Flame Tree Publishing. p. 196. ISBN 1-904041-96-5.

^ "Brown County Convention & Visitors Bureau Web site, 2018.08.28". Archived from the original on August 28, 2018. Retrieved August 28, 2018.


Sources[edit]
Ewing, Tom. 2018. Bill Monroe: The Life and Music of the Blue Grass Man. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. ISBN 978-0-252-04189-1
Klein, Bradley. (2011). "Bill Monroe: Celebrating The Father Of Bluegrass At 100". NPR.
Rumble, John (1998). "Bill Monroe". In The Encyclopedia of Country Music. Paul Kingsbury, Editor. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 350–2.
Smith, Richard D. (2000). Can't You Hear Me Callin': The Life of Bill Monroe, Father of Bluegrass. Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 0-316-80381-2.
Rosenberg, Neil V., and Charles K. Wolfe (2007). The Music of Bill Monroe. University of Illinois Press. ISBN 0-252-03121-0.
External links[edit]
 Quotations related to Bill Monroe at Wikiquote


Biography portal
"Bill Monroe". Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
Country Music Hall of Fame profile
International Bluegrass Music Hall of Honor profile
Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame profile
Recording of "Wayfaring Stranger" from the 1993 Florida Folk Festival (available for public use from the State Archives of Florida)
Bill Monroe: Father of Bluegrass Music (documentary video) Archived February 1, 2017, at the Wayback Machine
"Bill Monroe in Indiana: From Lake to Brown County, Oil to Bluegrass," Indiana Historical Bureau
Bill Monroe recordings at the Discography of American Historical Recordings.
vteBill MonroeStudio albums
Southern Flavor (1988)
Cryin' Holy Unto the Lord (1991)
Singles
"Uncle Pen"
"Kentucky Waltz"
"Blue Moon of Kentucky"
"I'm Working on a Building"
"Gotta Travel On"
Family
Birch Monroe
Charlie Monroe
Pendleton Vandiver
Related articles
Discography
Farm
Memorial Festival
Museum
Tribute album
Awards for Bill Monroe
vteCountry Music Hall of Fame 1970s
The Carter Family (1970)
Bill Monroe (1970)
Art Satherley (1971)
Jimmie Davis (1972)
Chet Atkins (1973)
Patsy Cline (1973)
Owen Bradley (1974)
Pee Wee King (1974)
Minnie Pearl (1975)
Paul Cohen (1976)
Kitty Wells (1976)
Merle Travis (1977)
Grandpa Jones (1978)
Hubert Long (1979)
Hank Snow (1979)

vteNational Medal of Arts recipients (1990s)1990
George Abbott
Hume Cronyn
Jessica Tandy
Merce Cunningham
Jasper Johns
Jacob Lawrence
Riley "B.B." King
David Lloyd Kreeger
Harris & Carroll Sterling Masterson
Ian McHarg
Beverly Sills
Southeastern Bell Corporation
1991
Maurice Abravanel
Roy Acuff
Pietro Belluschi
John Carter Brown III
Charles "Honi" Coles
John Crosby
Richard Diebenkorn
R. Philip Hanes
Kitty Carlisle Hart
Pearl Primus
Isaac Stern
Texaco
1992
Marilyn Horne
James Earl Jones
Allan Houser
Minnie Pearl
Robert Saudek
Earl Scruggs
Robert Shaw
Billy Taylor
Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown
Robert Wise
AT&T
Lila Wallace
1993
Walter and Leonore Annenberg
Cabell "Cab" Calloway
Ray Charles
Bess Lomax Hawes
Stanley Kunitz
Robert Merrill
Arthur Miller
Robert Rauschenberg
Lloyd Richards
William Styron
Paul Taylor
Billy Wilder
1994
Harry Belafonte
Dave Brubeck
Celia Cruz
Dorothy DeLay
Julie Harris
Erick Hawkins
Gene Kelly
Pete Seeger
Catherine Filene Shouse
Wayne Thiebaud
Richard Wilbur
Young Audiences
1995
Licia Albanese
Gwendolyn Brooks
B. Gerald and Iris Cantor
Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee
David Diamond
James Ingo Freed
Bob Hope
Roy Lichtenstein
Arthur Mitchell
Bill Monroe
Urban Gateways
1996
Edward Albee
Sarah Caldwell
Harry Callahan
Zelda Fichandler
Eduardo "Lalo" Guerrero
Lionel Hampton
Bella Lewitzky
Vera List
Robert Redford
Maurice Sendak
Stephen Sondheim
Boys Choir of Harlem
1997
Louise Bourgeois
Betty Carter
Agnes Gund
Daniel Urban Kiley
Angela Lansbury
James Levine
Tito Puente
Jason Robards
Edward Villella
Doc Watson
MacDowell Colony
1998
Jacques d'Amboise
Antoine "Fats" Domino
Ramblin' Jack Elliott
Frank Gehry
Barbara Handman
Agnes Martin
Gregory Peck
Roberta Peters
Philip Roth
Sara Lee Corporation
Steppenwolf Theatre Company
Gwen Verdon
1999
Irene Diamond
Aretha Franklin
Michael Graves
Odetta
Juilliard School
Norman Lear
Rosetta LeNoire
Harvey Lichtenstein
Lydia Mendoza
George Segal
Maria Tallchief

Complete list
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s

vteRock and Roll Hall of Fame – Class of 1997Performers
Bee Gees
Barry Gibb, Maurice Gibb, Robin Gibb
Buffalo Springfield
Richie Furay, Dewey Martin, Bruce Palmer, Stephen Stills, Neil Young
Crosby, Stills, & Nash
David Crosby, Graham Nash, Stephen Stills
The Jackson 5
Jackie Jackson, Jermaine Jackson, Marlon Jackson, Michael Jackson, Tito Jackson
Joni Mitchell
Parliament-Funkadelic
Jerome Brailey, George Clinton, Bootsy Collins, Raymond Davis, Tiki Fulwood, Glenn Goins, Michael Hampton, Fuzzy Haskins, Eddie Hazel, Walter Morrison, Cordell Mosson, Billy Bass Nelson, Garry Shider, Calvin Simon, Grady Thomas, Bernie Worrell
The (Young) Rascals
Eddie Brigati, Felix Cavaliere, Gene Cornish, Dino Danelli
Early influences
Mahalia Jackson
Bill Monroe
Non-performers(Ahmet Ertegun Award)
Syd Nathan

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech Republic2NetherlandsSwedenPolandIsraelFinlandBelgiumArtistsMusicBrainz2Discography of American Historical RecordingsGrammy AwardsOtherSNAC



