American musician (b. 1944)


Chris HillmanHillman in 1972Background informationBirth nameChristopher HillmanBorn (1944-12-04) December 4, 1944 (age 79)Los Angeles, California, U.S.GenresFolkbluegrassfolk rockrockcountry rockcountryOccupationMusicianInstrumentsBassguitarmandolinvocalsYears active1960–presentLabelsColumbiaSugar HillAsylumA&MRounderFormerly ofScottsville Squirrel BarkersThe HillmenThe ByrdsThe Flying Burrito BrothersManassasSouther Hillman Furay BandMcGuinn, Clark & HillmanThe Desert Rose BandWebsitewww.chrishillman.comMusical artist
Christopher Hillman (born December 4, 1944)[1] is an American musician. He was the original bassist of the Byrds. With frequent collaborator Gram Parsons, Hillman was a key figure in the development of country rock, defining the genre through his work with the Byrds, the Flying Burrito Brothers, Manassas and the country-rock group the Desert Rose Band. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1991 as a member of the Byrds.


Early life[edit]
Hillman was born in Los Angeles, California, the third of four children.[2] He spent his early years at his family's ranch home in rural northern San Diego County, approximately 110 miles (180 km) from Los Angeles. He has credited his older sister with exciting his interest in country and folk music, when she returned from college during the late 1950s with folk music records by The New Lost City Ramblers and others. Hillman soon began watching many of the country-music shows on local television in southern California at the time such as Town Hall Party, The Spade Cooley Show and Cal's Corral. Hillman's mother encouraged his musical interests and bought him his first guitar; shortly thereafter he developed an interest in bluegrass, particularly the mandolin. At the age of 15, Hillman went to Los Angeles to see the Kentucky Colonels bluegrass band at the Ash Grove, and later convinced his family to allow him to travel by train to Berkeley for lessons from mandolinist Scott Hambly. When Chris was 16, his father committed suicide.[3]
Hillman became known in San Diego's folk music community as a solid player; this won him an invitation to join his first band, the Scottsville Squirrel Barkers.[1] The band lasted barely two years, recording only one album (Blue Grass Favorites, which was distributed in supermarkets); however, it has a posthumous reputation as the spawning ground for a number of musicians who went on to play in the Eagles, the Flying Burrito Brothers, the Byrds, Hearts & Flowers, and the Country Gazette. When the band broke up in late 1963 Hillman received an invitation to join the Golden State Boys, regarded as the top bluegrass band in southern California and featuring future country star Vern Gosdin, his brother Rex and banjoist Don Parmley (later of the Bluegrass Cardinals). Shortly thereafter the band changed its name to The Hillmen;[1] soon Hillman was appearing regularly on television and using a fictitious ID, "Chris Hardin", to allow the underage musician into the country bars where many of his gigs were played. When the Hillmen folded, he briefly joined a spinoff of Randy Sparks' New Christy Minstrels known as the Green Grass Revival.

Career[edit]
The Byrds (1964–1968)[edit]
Main article: The Byrds
Hillman (far left) as a member of the Byrds in 1965
At this point a frustrated Hillman considered quitting music and enrolling at UCLA when he received an offer from The Hillmen's former manager and producer, Jim Dickson, to join Jim (later Roger) McGuinn, David Crosby, Gene Clark and Michael Clarke in a new band, The Byrds.[1] Hillman was recruited to play bass guitar, although he had never picked up the instrument. Thanks to his bluegrass background, he quickly developed his own melodic style on the instrument. The Byrds' first single, a jangly cover of Bob Dylan's "Mr. Tambourine Man", was an international hit and marked the birth of folk rock. During the mid-1960s the Byrds ranked as one of the most successful and influential American pop groups; they recorded a string of hits, including "Turn! Turn! Turn!", "Eight Miles High" and "So You Want to Be a Rock 'n' Roll Star".
Hillman kept a low profile on the band's first two albums, on which McGuinn and Clark shared lead vocals with Crosby adding high harmony and singing the bridge on "All I Really Want to Do". However, Clark's departure in 1966 and Crosby's growing restlessness allowed Hillman the opportunity to develop as a singer and songwriter in the group. He came into his own on the Byrds' 1967 album Younger Than Yesterday, co-writing and sharing lead vocals with McGuinn on the hit "So You Want to Be a Rock 'n' Roll Star".[1] Hillman also wrote (and sang) the minor hit "Have You Seen Her Face", "Thoughts and Words", "Time Between" and "The Girl with No Name", the latter two demonstrating his bluegrass and country roots. Hillman's prominence continued with the Byrds' next album, The Notorious Byrd Brothers, on which he shared songwriting credit on seven of the album's eleven songs.

Pioneering country rock[edit]
Internal strife dogged the Byrds, and by the beginning of 1968 the band was down to two original members (Hillman and McGuinn), with Hillman's cousin Kevin Kelley on drums. They then hired Gram Parsons to replace Crosby. Hillman, who had brought country music into the Byrds' earliest recording of "Satisfied Mind", found another lover of country music in Parsons.  Sweetheart of the Rodeo was recorded in Nashville and Los Angeles and continues to inspire musicians in the Americana format.[1] Parsons left the band shortly thereafter; Hillman brought in former Kentucky Colonels guitarist Clarence White as a replacement and White suggested that the group replace Kelley with Gene Parsons (no relation to Gram) on drums, but this line-up was short-lived and Hillman himself left the Byrds due to financial misappropriation by their management.

The Flying Burrito Brothers (1969–1972)[edit]
Main article: The Flying Burrito Brothers
The Flying Burrito Brothers (Amsterdam, 1970). From left to right: 'Sneaky' Pete Kleinow, Rick Roberts, Chris Hillman, Michael Clarke & Bernie Leadon 
Hillman teamed with Gram Parsons again (this time as vocalist, guitarist and songwriter) to form the Flying Burrito Brothers.[1] Further honing their pioneering country-rock hybrid sound by combining the energy, instrumentation and attitude of rock and roll with the issues and themes of country music, the Burritos recorded the landmark The Gilded Palace of Sin (1969) followed by 1970's Burrito Deluxe. Parsons was fired from the line-up by June 1970 (replaced by guitarist Rick Roberts) when the band toured Canada as part of the Festival Express tour, with Hillman reverting to bass guitar. Hillman stayed with the band for two more records, The Flying Burrito Brothers and Last of the Red Hot Burritos.

Various bands and solo career (1970s)[edit]
Main articles: Manassas (band); Souther-Hillman-Furay Band; and McGuinn, Clark & Hillman
Before the Flying Burrito Brothers disbanded, Hillman joined Stephen Stills' band Manassas.[1] They released two albums, a 1972 self-titled double album, and a 1973 album Down the Road. Led by Stills, Manassas was an exploration into a mixture of rock, country, blues, bluegrass and Latin music. In 1972, Stills gave Hillman a 1924 Lloyd Loar Gibson F-5 mandolin.[4][5] Hillman remained with Manassas until 1973, when he briefly re-joined the original line-up of the Byrds for a reunion album on Asylum Records.
In 1974, Hillman teamed with singer-songwriter Richie Furay (who co-founded Buffalo Springfield and Poco) and songwriter JD Souther (who co-wrote much of the Eagles' early repertoire) in the Souther-Hillman-Furay Band.[1] The trio never quite gelled, and broke up in 1975 after two albums and internal squabbles.
Hillman released two solo albums, Slippin' Away and Clear Sailin',[1] which included several songs co-written with Crawdaddy magazine editor Peter Knobler. One of their songs, "Step on Out," was recorded by The Oak Ridge Boys on their 1985 album and became the title cut. He was also an in-demand studio musician, playing and singing on sessions for Gene Clark, Dillard & Clark, Poco, Dan Fogelberg and others. After an early 1977 UK tour reunited him with Roger McGuinn and Gene Clark, the trio stayed together as McGuinn, Clark & Hillman for two albums[1] (on which Hillman continued his songwriting collaboration with Knobler) and one under the McGuinn-Hillman name, with a hit single in 1979's "Don't You Write Her Off".

The Desert Rose Band (1985–1994, 2008)[edit]
Main article: The Desert Rose Band
By the early 1980s Hillman had returned to his bluegrass and country roots, recording two acclaimed (mainly acoustic) albums for Sugar Hill Records with singer/guitarist/banjo player Herb Pedersen (a former member of The Dillards). Soon after, Hillman and Pedersen formed the Desert Rose Band;[1] this proved to be Hillman's most commercially successful post-Byrds project. Their self-titled debut album in 1987 generated two Top Ten country hits in "Love Reunited" (written with Steve Hill), "One Step Forward" and the number-one single "He's Back and I'm Blue." From 1987 until late 1993 the band recorded five albums and one Greatest Hits package and had a string of 16 country-music hits (the majority of which were in the country Top Ten) and a number of Academy of Country Music awards before disbanding in 1994. As Hillman said, "We definitely quit while we were ahead."
Chris Hillman, Herb Pedersen, JayDee Maness, John Jorgenson, Bill Bryson, and Steve Duncan performed their first reunion concert on August 27, 2008  in Solana Beach, CA. Before this date Chris Hillman and Herb Pedersen were as a duo joined by John Jorgenson on May 2, 2008 for a small DRB set at the Station Inn in Nashville. This six-man lineup is the best known, and includes all of the original members present on the hit albums from the 1980s. At this show, Hillman said it was the first time they had played together in 19 years. They went through a string of DRB hits but were unable to play "He's Back and I'm Blue" because Hillman said he had forgotten the words. This sold-out show prompted Hillman and the band to play a handful of other reunion shows at  music festivals throughout the U.S. Several of these were recorded for inclusion on a live album, which Hillman hopes to release in the U.S. and Europe. If released, this will be the Desert Rose Band's only live album.

1990s and beyond[edit]
Hillman in 2004
At the peak of the Desert Rose Band's success, Hillman began appearing infrequently with McGuinn. A duet recorded by the pair for the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band's Will The Circle Be Unbroken Vol. II album, "You Ain't Going Nowhere", reached the Country Top 10 in 1989. Soon the pair joined Crosby in a reformed Byrds, playing a handful of club dates. In 1990 they appeared at a tribute to Roy Orbison, performing "Mr. Tambourine Man" with the song's composer Bob Dylan. That same year the Byrds cut four new songs for inclusion in a career-spanning box set, and in 1991 they were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 1996 Hillman reunited with Desert Rose Band alumnus Herb Pederson for the CD Bakersfield Bound. Like a Hurricane (1998) and three bluegrass-flavored releases on Rounder Records with Pedersen, Larry Rice, and Tony Rice followed. He appeared on the 1999 album Return of the Grievous Angel: A Tribute to Gram Parsons in a duet with Steve Earle on "High Fashion Queen" (which Hillman wrote with Parsons).
After a brief hiatus Hillman and Pedersen returned with Way Out West (2002), a 17-track collection of country, roots rock and Americana; this was followed by The Other Side (2005). In 2010 he recorded "Live at Edwards Barn" with Herb Pedersen for Rounder Records.
Hillman has continued to write, perform and tour, with dates in 2017 with Herb Pedersen and John Jorgenson.[6]  He released his latest album, Bidin' My Time (2017), co-produced with Tom Petty, featuring guests including Roger McGuinn, David Crosby and members of The Heartbreakers. This has been described as "a kind of summing up of Hillman's long and varied career, incorporating the folk, bluegrass, country and rock styles he's touched on over the years."[7]
Along with Roger McGuinn, Marty Stuart and his Fabulous Superlatives, Hillman toured in the U.S. with the 50th Anniversary of the Sweetheart of the Rodeo, to sold out venues and outstanding reviews.
His memoir, Time Between: My Life as a Byrd, Burrito Brother and Beyond,  was published by BMG Books in November 2020, with positive reviews in Rolling Stone, The Wall Street Journal, Associated Press, and now in the second printing.

Personal life[edit]
Chris Hillman identifies as a Christian although his father was Jewish.[8] He married  former record executive Connie Pappas in 1979, who influenced him to affiliate with the Greek Orthodox Church. He later stated, "I’m still learning. You know what I do on Sundays? I sing in a choir. I sing in a Greek Orthodox choir, and I’m the only hillbilly tenor in the Orthodox Church."[9] Hillman and Pappas have two children, Catherine and Nicholas.[10]

Discography[edit]
Main article: Chris Hillman discography
Other Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Peak positions

Album


US Country[11]

CAN Country[12]


1984

"Somebody's Back in Town"

81

—

Desert Rose


1985

"Running the Roadblocks"

77

—


1989

"You Ain't Going Nowhere" (with Roger McGuinn)

6

11

Will the Circle Be Unbroken: Volume Two


"—" denotes releases that did not chart

References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Colin Larkin, ed. (1993). The Guinness Who's Who of Country Music (First ed.). Guinness Publishing. p. 190. ISBN 0-85112-726-6.

^ "Guitarist Chris Hillman". Library of Congress. Retrieved December 10, 2015.

^ "Chris Hillman: 'Turn, Turn, Turn'". Cbn.com. Retrieved December 10, 2015.

^ Lewis, Randy (September 18, 2017). "Byrds co-founder Chris Hillman taps David Crosby, Roger McGuinn, Tom Petty for new solo album". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved May 29, 2024.

^ "Chris Hillman". Los Angeles Times. September 18, 2017. Retrieved May 29, 2024.

^ "Tour Dates". Chris Hillman. Retrieved October 7, 2017.

^ Graff, Gary (September 19, 2017). "Byrds Legend Chris Hillman Premieres Tom Petty-Produced 'Bidin' My Time' Album: Exclusive". Billboard. Retrieved October 7, 2017.

^ "Counsel of Elders: Chris Hillman on Looking Across Time". The Bluegrass Situation. November 10, 2017. Retrieved January 28, 2020.

^ "I like the Christian life: The Byrds' Hillman talks about his faith". November 5, 2013.

^ Savage, Mark (March 27, 2018). "5 pop songs you didn't know were about God". BBC.

^ Whitburn, Joel (2017). Hot Country Songs 1944 to 2017. Record Research, Inc. p. 166. ISBN 978-0-89820-229-8.

^ "RPM 100 Country Singles". RPM. July 31, 1989. Retrieved February 26, 2022.


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chris Hillman.

Official homepage
Chris Hillman at AllMusic
Chris Hillman discography at Discogs
2003 Interview
2009 Radio Interview
Chris Hillman discography at Byrds Flyght Archived February 11, 2021, at the Wayback Machine


Awards


Preceded byLevon Helm

 AMA Lifetime Achievement Award for Performing 2004

Succeeded byMarty Stuart


vteThe Byrds
Roger McGuinn
Gene Clark
David Crosby
Chris Hillman
Michael Clarke
Kevin Kelley
Gram Parsons
Clarence White
Gene Parsons
John York
Skip Battin
Studio albums
Mr. Tambourine Man
Turn! Turn! Turn!
Fifth Dimension
Younger Than Yesterday
The Notorious Byrd Brothers
Sweetheart of the Rodeo
Dr. Byrds & Mr. Hyde
Ballad of Easy Rider
(Untitled)
Byrdmaniax
Farther Along
Byrds
Live albums
(Untitled)
Live at the Fillmore – February 1969
Live at Royal Albert Hall 1971
Compilations
The Byrds' Greatest Hits
Preflyte
The Byrds' Greatest Hits Volume II
The Best of The Byrds: Greatest Hits, Volume II
History of The Byrds
The Byrds Play Dylan
The Original Singles: 1965–1967, Volume 1
The Original Singles: 1967–1969, Volume 2
Never Before
In the Beginning
20 Essential Tracks from the Byrds Box Set (1965-1990)
The Very Best of The Byrds
The Preflyte Sessions
The Essential Byrds
Box sets
The Byrds
There Is a Season
Tribute albums
Time Between – A Tribute to The Byrds
Singles
"Mr. Tambourine Man" / "I Knew I'd Want You"
"All I Really Want to Do" / "I'll Feel a Whole Lot Better"
"Turn! Turn! Turn!" / "She Don't Care About Time"
"Set You Free This Time"
"It Won't Be Wrong"
"Eight Miles High" / "Why"
"5D (Fifth Dimension)"
"Mr. Spaceman"
"So You Want to Be a Rock 'n' Roll Star"
"My Back Pages"
"Have You Seen Her Face"
"Lady Friend" /  "Old John Robertson"
"Goin' Back"
"You Ain't Goin' Nowhere"
"Lay Lady Lay"
"Wasn't Born to Follow"
"Ballad of Easy Rider"
"Jesus Is Just Alright" / "It's All Over Now, Baby Blue"
"Chestnut Mare"
"Full Circle"
Other notable songs
"You Showed Me"
"Spanish Harlem Incident"
"Here Without You"
"The Bells of Rhymney"
"Chimes of Freedom"
"Lay Down Your Weary Tune"
"He Was a Friend of Mine"
"The World Turns All Around Her"
"If You're Gone"
"The Times They Are a-Changin'"
"Triad"
"Hickory Wind"
"Nothing Was Delivered"
"You Don't Miss Your Water"
Associated people
Bob Dylan
Jimmi Seiter
John Guerin
Terry Melcher
Allen Stanton
Gary Usher
Jacques Levy
Kim Fowley
Derek Taylor
Johnny Rogan
Related articles
Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young
The Flying Burrito Brothers
McGuinn, Clark & Hillman
Firefall
The Desert Rose Band
See also: Discography
vteThe Desert Rose Band
Chris Hillman
Herb Pedersen
John Jorgenson
Bill Bryson
Steve Duncan
JayDee Maness
Tom Brumley
Jeff Ross
Tim Grogan
Studio albums
The Desert Rose Band
Running
Pages of Life
True Love
Life Goes On
Compilation albums
A Dozen Roses – Greatest Hits
Top 40 Singles
"Ashes of Love"
"Love Reunited"
"One Step Forward"
"He's Back and I'm Blue"
"Summer Wind"
"I Still Believe in You"
"She Don't Love Nobody"
"Hello Trouble"
"Start All Over Again"
"In Another Lifetime"
"Story of Love"
"Will This Be the Day"
"Come a Little Closer"
"You Can Go Home"
"Twilight is Gone"
"What About Love"
"Night after Night"
Related articles
The Byrds
The Flying Burrito Brothers

vteThe Flying Burrito Brothers
Chris Hillman
Sneaky Pete Kleinow
Gram Parsons
Chris Ethridge
Michael Clarke
Bernie Leadon
Rick Roberts
Al Perkins
Byron Berline
Floyd "Gib" Guilbeau
Gene Parsons
Bobby Cochran
Skip Battin
Mickey McGee
John Beland
Brian Cadd
Flying Burrito Brothersstudio albums
The Gilded Palace of Sin (1969)
Burrito Deluxe (1970)
The Flying Burrito Bros (1971)
Flying Again (1975)
Airborne (1976)
Eye of a Hurricane (1994)
California Jukebox (1997)
Sons of the Golden West (1999)
Burrito Brothersstudio albums
Hearts on the Line (1981)
Sunset Sundown (1982)
Burrito Deluxestudio albums
Georgia Peach (2002)
The Whole Enchilada (2004)
Disciples of the Truth (2007)
Compilation albums
Close Up the Honky Tonks (1974)
Sleepless Nights (1976)
Hot Burritos! The Flying Burrito Brothers Anthology 1969–1972 (2000)
Live albums
Last of the Red Hot Burritos (1972)
Sin City (1976)
Live from Tokyo (1979)
Cabin Fever (1985)
Live from Europe (1986)
Gram Parsons Archives Vol.1: Live at the Avalon Ballroom 1969 (2007)
Singles
"Almost Saturday Night"
Related
The Byrds
The Desert Rose Band
The Scottsville Squirrel Barkers

vteRock and Roll Hall of Fame – Class of 1991Performers
LaVern Baker
The Byrds
Gene Clark, Michael Clarke, David Crosby, Chris Hillman, Roger McGuinn
John Lee Hooker
The Impressions
Jerry Butler, Arthur Brooks, Richard Brooks, Fred Cash, Sam Gooden, Curtis Mayfield
The Lennon Sisters
Wilson Pickett
Jimmy Reed
Ike & Tina Turner
Ike Turner, Tina Turner
Early influences
Howlin' Wolf
Non-performers(Ahmet Ertegun Award)
Dave Bartholomew
Ralph Bass
Lifetime achievement
Nesuhi Ertegun

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataNetherlandsArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy AwardsPeopleDeutsche Biographie



