American country band
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Cooder Graw" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guideline for music. Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.Find sources: "Cooder Graw" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article relies excessively on references to primary sources. Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources. Find sources: "Cooder Graw" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article needs to be updated. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (July 2013)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Cooder Graw is a self-described "loud country" (country music / alternative country) band from Amarillo and Lubbock, Texas. It is also the title of their second album.
The group formed in 1998. It is perhaps most well known for the song "Llano Estacado" that was featured on a series of Dodge commercials.
Cooder Graw is somewhat of an anomaly in the music industry, in that its members' ages at its inception ranged from late-30s to early-50s. The band's singer, Matt Martindale, was the assistant district attorney of Gray County, Texas, prior to devoting his full attention to the band. Guitarist Kelly Turner was the manager of a manufacturing plant in Slaton, Texas.
The band was originally called "Coup de Grâce," but another band was already using that name, so the name was changed to a "Texas-version" of the original name. The band's debut album, Home at the Golden Light, consisted of mostly covers and was self-produced by the band (though executive producer credit is given to Matthew McConaughey, a fraternity brother of Matt Martindale). It was released in 1998. The band's first national release, Cooder Graw, was released in late 1999.
Cooder Graw has toured extensively throughout Texas and the United States, both headlining and opening for artists such as Willie Nelson and Alabama. The group also played at the premiere of the film EDtv, which starred McConaughey.
In 2006, Cooder Graw announced that they would cease performing together after the end of the year. Their last show was on December 31, 2006, in Fort Worth, Texas. Lead singer Matt Martindale is still performing occasionally with his new band, The Matt Martindale Band.
While Martindale, Turner, and Baker returned to careers outside of music, February 27, 2012, Cooder Graw announced a reunion tour would kick off April 28, 2012, at the Larry Joe Taylor Music Fest with more dates to follow.


Current[edit]
Matt Martindale - acoustic guitar, vocals
Paul Baker - bass guitar
Kelly Turner - lead guitar
Kelly Test - drums, backing vocals
Carmen Acciaioli - fiddle, mandolin
Danny Crelin - pedal steel guitar
Former members[edit]
Joe Ammons - drums, vocals
Jim Whisenhunt - pedal steel guitar
Nick Worley - fiddle, mandolin
Jon "Fish" Hunt - drums, backing vocals
Discography[edit]
Albums[edit]
Home at the Golden Light (1998)
Cooder Graw (1999)
Segundo (2000)
Shifting Gears (2001)
Live at Billy Bob's Texas (2002)
Wake Up (2004)
Big Sign (2009)
Love to Live By (2016)
Music videos[edit]
"Junior's in the Yard"
"Better Days"
"Love to Live By"
Compilations[edit]
Texas Road Trip - "18 Wheels of Loving" (2001)
Brewed in Texas - "Whiskey Bent And Hellbound" (2002)
Cow Hear This - "Better Days" (2002)
Compadre's Texas Lovers - "Ain't Livin' Long Like This" (2003)
Red River Tribute (tribute to Waylon Jennings) - "Rainy Day Woman" (2003)
External links[edit]
[1]
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFNationalUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainz



