American fiddler (1898–1971)
For other people named Arthur Smith, see Arthur Smith (disambiguation).
Fiddlin' Arthur SmithBackground informationBirth nameArthur SmithBornApril 10, 1898Bold Springs, Tennessee, United StatesDiedFebruary 28, 1971(1971-02-28) (aged 72)Louisville, Kentucky, United StatesGenresCountry, old-time musicOccupationMusicianInstrumentFiddleYears active1920s–1960sMusical artist
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith (April 10, 1898 – February 28, 1971)[1] was an American old time fiddler and a major influence on the old time and bluegrass music genres.


Biography[edit]
Smith was born and raised on a farm near Bold Springs, Tennessee, United States. He learned to play the fiddle at an early age, his first influence being the fiddlers Grady Stringer and Walter Warden.[1] He married in 1914 at the age of sixteen.[1] Initially he began performing at local dances and fiddlers' conventions. He teamed up with his wife Nettie, his cousin Homer Smith and fiddler Floyd Ethredge.[1] In 1921, Smith began working as a logger and a linesman for a railroad company in Dickson, Tennessee.[1] In his work he had to make extensive travels and that enabled him to meet other musicians along the way. He attended several fiddle contests across Tennessee winning the bulk of them.
Smith made his solo debut as a fiddler on the Grand Ole Opry on December 23, 1927.[1] He was made a member of The Opry in the 1920s.[2]  Within weeks he was accompanied by his cousin Homer Smith.[1] In the meantime, Fiddlin' Arthur Smith continued to work on the railroad.[1] In the 1930s, Smith formed The Dixieliners together with the McGee Brothers, and his daughter Lavonne who played the piano.[1] They became a regular act on the Opry in May 1932 performing popular songs such as "Walking in My Sleep", "Pig in the Pen" and "Blackberry Blossom". The Dixieliners toured the countryside featuring Uncle Dave Macon and the Delmore Brothers on some of these tours.[1] In January 1935, Smith made his first recordings with the Delmore Brothers on the Bluebird label.[3] In 1936, Smith began to sing on his recordings on songs such as, "Chittlin' Cookin' Time in Cheatham County", "There's More Pretty Girls Than One", and his signature song, "Beautiful Brown Eyes". That particular song, recorded in August 1937, led Smith to take action in court against some musicians, who had recorded the song as if it was in the public domain.[1] He ended up winning the suit.
Because of the hard work it took to maintain two full-time jobs, on the railroad and as a professional musician, Smith fell into hard drinking.[1] In February 1938, it led to a temporary three-month suspension from the Opry.[1] With assistance from Roy Acuff, Smith returned to the music circuit.
In 1938, Smith's first recordings as Arthur Smith & His Dixieliners appeared on Bluebird,[3] a band name he would again and again revisit, into the 1960s.  In 1939, Smith joined the Tennessee Valley Boys, consisting of Howdy Forrester and Georgia Slim Rutland.[1] The following year, he left to join the Shelton Brothers in Shreveport, Louisiana.[1] Once again, he left and instead formed a new group, The Band of Arthurs, in Decatur, Alabama with his daughter Lavonne and some other musicians all named Arthur.[1]
In the early 1940s, Smith joined the Bailes Brothers, and published two songbooks, Songs From the Hills of Tennessee and Arthur Smith's Original Song Folio no. 1.[1] In the following years, he performed with artists such as Rex Griffin and Jimmy Wakely.[1] This led to an invitation from Hollywood in 1944 to appear in some low budget westerns.[1] His film career ended in 1948. Smith signed with Capitol Records, but to avoid confusion with the newcomer Arthur "Guitar Boogie" Smith, Fiddlin' Arthur Smith's recordings were released under the name of The Original Arthur Smith and His Dixieliners.[1] After a brief stint with Billy Walker, Smith retired, and briefly worked as a carpenter in Nashville, Tennessee.[1]
Roy Acuff performed and recorded Smith's song, "Beautiful, Brown Eyes". This led to several artists recording the song, believing it was in the public domain, and Smith had to sue them in court. He eventually won the suit and received a lump sum.[1]
Smith made a comeback and joined up with Merle Travis.[1] In 1957, Mike Seeger arranged a recording session with Smith and the McGee Brothers, held in Kirk McGee's living room.[1] Eight years later, the recordings were released on an album.[1] In 1965, Smith and the McGee Brothers appeared at the Newport Folk Festival. He made his last appearance in 1969, with Sleepy Marlin and Tommy Riggs.[1] Smith died in 1971 in Louisville, Kentucky, and was buried near McEwen, Tennessee.[1]

Discography[edit]
78s: 
In various prewar line-ups, Smith recorded singles on Bluebird, Victor, Regal Zonophone (Australia), The Twin (India), and Montgomery Ward labels, and in the post-war years on Black & White, Capitol, and Urban.
LPs: 

Fiddlin’ Arthur Smith & The Dixieliners : Rare Old Time Fiddle Tunes - Starday SLP-202 (1962); reissued Pine Mountain PMR-202.
Arthur Smith & the McGee Brothers : Mountain Songs and Instrumentals - Folkways FA-2379 (1964)
Arthur Smith & the McGee Brothers : Milk 'Em in the Evening Blues - Folkways FTS-31007 (1968)
Reissued material also appears on:

Fiddlin’ Arthur Smith & His Dixieliners : Vol. 1 - County 546 (1978)
Fiddlin’ Arthur Smith & His Dixieliners : Vol. 2 - County 547 (1978)
Fiddlin’ Arthur Smith & His Dixieliners : eponymous - County CO-CD-3526 (2002)
Fiddlin’ Arthur Smith & His Dixieliners : Appalachian Stomp Down, Disc D - JSP JSP-7761D (2006)
References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa "Fiddlin' Arthur Smith | Biography & History". AllMusic. Retrieved August 10, 2021.

^ "Opry Timeline - 1920s". Opry.com. Retrieved July 5, 2012.

^ a b Russell, Tony. Country Music Records: A Discography, 1921-1942. Oxford University Press, US, 2004. pp. 840-842, ISBN 978-0195139891


Bibliography[edit]
Ryan J. Thompson, The Fiddler's Almanac: A Wealth of Fiddling Lore and Illustrations, 1985
Ivan M. Tribe, Country: A Regional Exploration, 2006, Greenwood Press, ISBN 978-0313330261
vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataBelgiumArtistsMusicBrainz2Discography of American Historical RecordingsOtherSNAC



