American country music singer (born 1943)
This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Gene Watson" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Gene WatsonWatson performing at the Grand Ole Opry in 2007Background informationBirth nameGary Gene WatsonBorn (1943-10-11) October 11, 1943 (age 80)Palestine, TexasGenresCountryOccupationSingerInstrument(s)Vocals, guitarYears active1962–presentLabelsCapitol, MCA, Epic, Warner Bros., Step One, ShanachieWebsitegenewatsonmusic.comMusical artist
Gene Watson, September 2016, Ruidoso, New Mexico, OnstageMagazineGroup
Gary Gene Watson (born October 11, 1943)[1] is an American country music singer. He is most famous for his 1975 hit "Love in the Hot Afternoon," his 1981 No. 1 hit "Fourteen Carat Mind," and his signature 1979 song "Farewell Party."  Watson's long career has included five number one hits,[2] 21 top tens, and 48 charted singles.


Biography[edit]
Watson was born in Palestine, Texas, United States.[1][3] He was raised in Paris, Texas, but in 1963 he relocated to Houston. There is street in Paris, Texas called Gene Watson Boulevard that was named after the singer.[1] He began his music career in the 1960s, performing in local clubs at night while working in a Houston auto body shop during the day.[1] He recorded for only a few small, regional record labels having a regional hit "Bad Water", until 1975, when Capitol Records picked up his album Love in the Hot Afternoon and released it nationally.[1] The title track, a mid-tempo ballad in three-quarter time, was released in June 1975, and it  reached No. 3 on the Billboard magazine Hot Country Singles chart.[1]
Watson's national success continued throughout the late 1970s and early 1980s, as he recorded several Billboard top-40 hits, including "Where Love Begins," "Paper Rosie," "Should I Go Home (or Should I Go Crazy)," "Nothing Sure Looked Good on You," and "Farewell Party," which was released in 1979,[1] and quickly became Watson's signature song, and the namesake of his Farewell Party Band.
In February 2012, Watson, celebrated his 50th year in the music business with the release of Best of the Best, 25 Greatest Hits. (His first single on radio was "If It Was That Easy", released in 1962). The collection of songs was re-recorded to recreate the originals as closely as possible.  The project was produced by Dirk Johnson and released on Watson's own Fourteen Carat Music label. In June 2014, Watson released an eleven track CD, My Heroes Have Always Been Country,[4] covering hits by some of his musical heroes such as Merle Haggard, Ray Price and Lefty Frizzell.  On February 26, 2016, Watson released his 33rd studio album titled, Real.Country.Music.[4]  The 13-track CD contained traditional country music and the first single release is "Enough For You", a song written by Kris Kristofferson. In 2018, Watson released a gospel music CD titled My Gospel Roots.[4] The first single from the 13-track release, "Old Roman Soldier" hit No. 1 on the Cashbox and Christian Servant Country Gospel charts in June 2018.
Watson was inducted into the Texas Country Music Hall of Fame in 2002,[5] and inducted into the inaugural class of the Houston Music Hall of Fame in August 2013. In 2018, Watson received the "Entertainer of the Year" Award from the R.O.P.E. Awards, an honor he shared with singer, Jeannie Seely. It was the first time in the history of the Awards that there was a tie in any category.
Watson was invited to join the Grand Ole Opry, by Vince Gill, on January 17, 2020.[6]

The Farewell Party Band[edit]
This section of a biography of a living person does not include any references or sources. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living people that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately.Find sources: "Gene Watson" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
The Farewell Party Band is his long-time backing band. They were named after his 1978 hit single "Farewell Party." Between 1982 and 1984, two studio albums were released credited to Gene Watson and the Farewell Party Band. The Farewell Party Band backed Watson on one of his solo albums, and they released one studio album on their own. Several notable musicians were members of the Farewell Party Band, such as Tony Booth. While many other members have played with them since the 1980s, below is a timeline of just the members during their recorded output.


Discography[edit]
Main article: Gene Watson discography
References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g Colin Larkin, ed. (1993). The Guinness Who's Who of Country Music (First ed.). Guinness Publishing. p. 436. ISBN 0-85112-726-6.

^ Billboard, Cashbox, Radio & Records, Gavin and Music Row Music Charts

^ "Gene Watson". Music City Roots. Archived from the original on 2017-02-02. Retrieved 2016-03-17.

^ a b c "Gene Watson | Biography & History". AllMusic. Retrieved August 11, 2021.

^ "2002 - Texas Country Music Hall of Fame". Tcmhof.com. Retrieved August 11, 2021.

^ "WATCH: Vince Gill Invites Gene Watson to Join the Grand Ole Opry". Tasteofcountry.com. 18 January 2020. Retrieved August 11, 2021.


External links[edit]
Official Gene Watson website
Original Gene Watson Fan Site - The Original Gene Watson Fan Site, which has been active since September 2004, is recognized by Gene Watson & his management team at Lytle Management in Brentwood, TN.
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicArtistsMusicBrainz
vteGene WatsonNotable singles
"Love in the Hot Afternoon"
"Paper Rosie"
"Farewell Party"
"Pick the Wildwood Flower"
"Should I Come Home (Or Should I Go Crazy)"
"Nothing Sure Looked Good on You"
"Fourteen Carat Mind"
"Speak Softly (You're Talking to My Heart)"
"This Dream's on Me"
"What She Don't Know Won't Hurt Her"
"You're Out Doing What I'm Here Doing Without"
"Got No Reason Now for Goin' Home"
"Memories to Burn"
"Everybody Needs a Hero"
"Don't Waste It on the Blues"
"Back in the Fire"
"The Jukebox Played Along"
"At Last"
Related articles
Discography

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman




