American country musician (1931–2013)
For other people named George Jones, see George Jones (disambiguation).
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "George Jones" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (July 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (July 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this message)


George JonesJones performing in Metropolis, Illinois, in 2002BornGeorge Glenn Jones(1931-09-12)September 12, 1931Saratoga, Texas, U.S.DiedApril 26, 2013(2013-04-26) (aged 81)Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.Resting placeWoodlawn Memorial ParkOccupationsSingersongwritermusicianYears active1953–2013Spouses

Dorothy Bonvillion
​ ​(m. 1950; div. 1951)​

Shirley Ann Corley
​ ​(m. 1954; div. 1968)​

Tammy Wynette
​ ​(m. 1969; div. 1975)​

Nancy Sepulvado ​(m. 1983)​
Children4Musical careerAlso known asKing George, Thumper Jones, The Possum, No Show Jones, "The Rolls-Royce of Country Music"GenresCountrygospelInstruments
Acoustic guitar
vocals
Labels
Starday
Mercury
United Artists
RCA
Musicor
Epic
MCA Nashville
Asylum
BNA Records
Bandit
Websitewww.georgejones.com
Musical artist
Military ServiceAllegianceUnited StatesService/branchUnited States Marine CorpsYears of service1951–1953RankPrivateAwardsNational Defense Service Medal

George Glenn Jones (September 12, 1931 – April 26, 2013) was an American country musician, singer, and songwriter. He achieved international fame for a long list of hit records, and is well known for his distinctive voice and phrasing. For the last two decades of his life, Jones was frequently referred to as "the greatest living country singer",[1][2] "The Rolls-Royce of Country Music",[3] and had more than 160 chart singles to his name from 1955 until his death in 2013.
His earliest musical influences were Roy Acuff and Bill Monroe,[4] although the artistry of Hank Williams and Lefty Frizzell helped to crystallize his vocal style[citation needed]. He served in the United States Marine Corps and was discharged in 1953. In 1959, Jones recorded "White Lightning", written by The Big Bopper, which launched his career as a singer. Years of alcoholism compromised his health and led to his missing many performances, earning him the nickname "No Show Jones."[5] Jones died in 2013, aged 81, from hypoxic respiratory failure.


Life and career[edit]
Early years (1931–1953)[edit]
George Glenn Jones was born on September 12, 1931, in Saratoga, Texas, and was raised with a brother and five sisters in Colmesneil, Texas, in the Big Thicket region of southeast Texas.[6] His father, George Washington Jones, worked in a shipyard and played harmonica and guitar; his mother, Clara (née Patterson), played piano in the Pentecostal Church on Sundays.[7] When Jones was born, one of the doctors dropped him and broke his arm.[7] He heard country music for the first time when he was seven, when his parents bought a radio. Jones recalled to Billboard in 2006 that he would lie in bed with his parents on Saturday nights listening to the Grand Ole Opry, and would insist that his mother wake him if he fell asleep so that he could hear Roy Acuff or Bill Monroe. 
In his autobiography I Lived To Tell It All, Jones recalled that the early death of his sister Ethel worsened his father's drinking problem, which caused him to be physically and emotionally abusive to his wife and children. In his biography George Jones: The Life and Times of a Honky Tonk Legend, Bob Allen recounts how George Washington Jones would return home drunk in the middle of the night with his cronies, wake up his terrified son and demand that he sing for them or face a beating. In a CMT episode of Inside Fame dedicated to Jones's life, country music historian Robert K. Oermann said, "You would think that it would make him not a singer, because it was so abusively thrust on him. But the opposite happened; he became ... someone who had to sing."  In the same program, Jones admitted that he remained ambivalent and resentful towards his father until the day he died. He observed in his autobiography, "The Jones family makeup doesn't sit well with liquor ... Daddy was an unusual drinker. He drank to excess, but never while working, and he probably was the hardest working man I've ever known." His father bought him his first guitar at age nine and he learned his first chords and songs at church. Several photographs show a young George busking on the streets of Beaumont.

Hank Williams, Jones's biggest musical influence
He left home at 16 and went to Jasper, Texas, where he sang and played on the KTXJ radio station with fellow musician Dalton Henderson. He moved to the KRIC radio station, and during an afternoon show there met his idol, Hank Williams ("I just stared," he later wrote).[7] In the 1989 video documentary Same Ole Me, Jones admitted, "I couldn't think or eat nothin' unless it was Hank Williams, and I couldn't wait for his next record to come out. He had to be, really, the greatest."  He married his first wife Dorothy Bonvillion in 1950; they divorced in 1951. He was enlisted in the United States Marines and until his discharge in 1953 was stationed in San Jose, California.[8]

First recordings (1954–1957)[edit]
Jones married Shirley Ann Corley in 1954. His first record, the self-penned "No Money in This Deal", was recorded on January 19 and was released in February on Starday Records. This began Jones's association with producer and mentor H.W. "Pappy" Daily. The song was cut in the living room of Starday Records' co-founder Jack Starnes, who produced it. Around this time Jones also worked at KTRM (now KZZB) in Beaumont. Deejay Gordon Baxter told Nick Tosches that Jones had acquired the nickname "possum" while working there. During his early recording sessions, Daily admonished Jones for attempting to sound too much like his heroes Hank Williams and Lefty Frizzell. In 1996 Jones recalled to NPR that the quality of production at Starday was poor. "It was a terrible sound. We recorded in a small living room of a house on a highway near Beaumont. You could hear the trucks. We had to stop a lot of times because it wasn't soundproof, it was just egg crates nailed on the wall and the big old semi trucks would go by and make a lot of noise and we'd have to start over again." Jones's first hit came with "Why Baby Why" in 1955, and in that year, while touring as a cast member of the Louisiana Hayride, Jones met and played shows with Elvis Presley and Johnny Cash. In 1994, Jones told Nick Tosches that Presley "stayed pretty much with his friends around him in his dressing room". Jones remained a lifelong friend of Johnny Cash, and was invited to sing at the Grand Ole Opry in 1956.
With Presley's explosion in popularity in 1956, pressure was put on Jones to cut some rockabilly sides. He reluctantly agreed, but his heart was not in it and he quickly regretted his decision. He joked later in his autobiography, "When I've encountered those records I've used them for Frisbees."  He told Billboard in 2006: "I was desperate. When you're hungry, a poor man with a house full of kids, you're gonna do some things you ordinarily wouldn't do. I said, 'Well, hell, I'll try anything once.'  I tried 'Dadgum It How Come It' and 'Rock It', a bunch of shit. I didn't want my name on the rock and roll thing, so I told them to put Thumper Jones on it and if it did something, good, if it didn't, hell, I didn't want to be shamed with it." He unsuccessfully attempted to buy all the masters to keep the cuts from surfacing later, which they did.[9]
Jones moved to Mercury in 1957, teamed up with singer Jeannette Hicks, the first of several duet partners he would have over the years, and had another top-10 single with "Yearning". Starday Records merged with Mercury that year, and Jones was rated highly on the charts with his debut Mercury release, "Don't Stop the Music". Although he was garnering a lot of attention, and his singles were making very respectable showings on the charts, he was still travelling the black-top roads in a 1940s Packard with his name and phone number on the side, playing the "blood bucket" circuit of honky-tonks that dotted the rural countryside.[7]

Commercial breakout (1959–1964)[edit]
One of George Jones's duet partners was Melba Montgomery. In the 1960s, they recorded a series of duets such as "We Must Have Been Out of Our Minds".
In 1959, Jones had his first number one on the Billboard country chart with "White Lightnin'", which was a more authentic rock and roll sound than his half-hearted rockabilly cuts.
Jones had early success as a songwriter. He wrote or co-wrote many of his biggest hits during this period, several of which became standards, such as "Window Up Above" (later a hit for Mickey Gilley in 1975) and "Seasons of My Heart" (a hit for Johnny Cash, and also recorded by Willie Nelson and Jerry Lee Lewis). Jones wrote "Just One More" (also recorded by Cash), "Life To Go" (a top-five hit for Stonewall Jackson in 1959), "You Gotta Be My Baby", and "Don't Stop The Music" on his own, and had a hand in writing "Color of the Blues" (covered by Loretta Lynn and Elvis Costello), "Tender Years", and "Tall, Tall Trees" (co-written with Roger Miller). Jones's most frequent songwriting collaborator was his childhood friend Darrell Edwards.
Jones signed with United Artists in 1962, and immediately scored one of the biggest hits of his career, "She Thinks I Still Care". His voice had grown deeper during this period, and he began cultivating his own singing style. During his stint with UA, Jones recorded albums of Hank Williams and Bob Wills songs, and cut an album of duets with Melba Montgomery, including the hit "We Must Have Been Out of Our Minds". Jones was also gaining a reputation as a hell-raiser. In his Rolling Stone tribute, Merle Haggard recalled:

"I met him at the Blackboard Café in Bakersfield, California, which was the place to go in '61. He was already famous for not showing up or showing up drunk, and he showed up drunk. I was onstage – I think I was singing Marty Robbins' 'Devil Woman' – and he kicked the doors of the office open and said 'Who the fuck is that?'  It was one of the greatest compliments of my entire life when George Jones said I was his favorite country singer ... In 1967, I released a ballad called "I Threw Away The Rose" and he was so impressed he actually jumped ship and left his tour, rented a Lear Jet and came to Amarillo, Texas. He told me my low note changed his life. "[10]
Jones was always backed by the Jones Boys on tour. Like Buck Owens's Buckaroos and Merle Haggard's Strangers, Jones worked with many talented musicians, including Dan Schafer,[11] Hank Singer, Brittany Allyn, Sonny Curtis, Kent Goodson, Bobby Birkhead, and Steve Hinson. In the 1980s and 1990s, bass player Ron Gaddis served as the Jones Boys' bandleader and sang harmony with Jones in concert. Lorrie Morgan (who married Gaddis) also toured as a backup singer for Jones in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Johnny Paycheck was the Jones Boys' bass player in the 1960s before going on to his own stardom in the 1970s.[citation needed]

Alcoholism and decline (1964–1979)[edit]
In 1964, Pappy Daily secured a new contract with Musicor records. For the rest of the 1960s, Jones scored only one number one (1967's "Walk Through This World With Me"), but he featured often in the country music charts. Significant hits included "Love Bug" (a nod to Buck Owens and the Bakersfield sound), "Things Have Gone to Pieces", "The Race Is On", "My Favorite Lies", "I'll Share My World with You", "Take Me" (which he co-wrote and later recorded with Tammy Wynette), "A Good Year for the Roses", and "If My Heart Had Windows". Jones's singing style had by now evolved from the full-throated, high lonesome sound of Hank Williams and Roy Acuff on his early Starday records to the more refined, subtle style of Lefty Frizzell. In a 2006 interview with Billboard, Jones acknowledged the fellow Texan's influence on his idiosyncratic phrasing: "I got that from Lefty. He always made five syllables out of one word."
Jones's binge drinking and use of amphetamines on the road caught up to him in 1967, and he had to be admitted into a neurological hospital to seek treatment for his drinking. Jones would go to extreme lengths for a drink if the thirst was on him. A drinking story concerning Jones occurred while he was married to his second wife Shirley Corley. Jones recalled Shirley trying to prevent him from travelling to Beaumont, 8 miles away, to buy liquor. She said she hid the keys to all their cars, but she did not hide the keys to the lawn mower. He wrote in his memoir: "There, gleaming in the glow, was that ten-horsepower rotary engine under a seat. A key glistening in the ignition. I imagine the top speed for that old mower was five miles per hour. It might have taken an hour and a half or more for me to get to the liquor store, but get there I did."[12] Years later Jones comically mocked the incident by making a cameo in the video for "All My Rowdy Friends Are Coming Over Tonight" by Hank Williams Jr. He also parodied the episode in the 1993 video for "One More Last Chance" by Vince Gill and in his own music video for the single "Honky Tonk Song" in 1996. Tammy Wynette, in her 1979 autobiography Stand By Your Man, claimed the incident occurred while she was married to Jones. She said she woke at one in the morning to find her husband gone. "I got into the car and drove to the nearest bar 10 miles away. When I pulled into the parking lot, there sat our rider-mower right by the entrance. He'd driven that mower right down a main highway... He looked up and saw me and said, ‘Well, fellas, here she is now. My little wife, I told you she'd come after me.’"[13] Jones had become aware of Tammy Wynette because their tours were booked by the same agency and their paths sometimes crossed. Wynette was married to songwriter Don Chapel, who was also the opening act for her shows, and the three became friends. Jones married Wynette in 1969.

Tammy Wynette in 1971
They began touring together, and Jones bought out his contract with Musicor so that he could record with Wynette and her producer Billy Sherrill on Epic Records after she had split with longtime producer Pappy Daily. In the early 1970s, Jones and Wynette became known as "Mr. & Mrs. Country Music" and scored several big hits, including "We're Gonna Hold On", "Let's Build A World Together", "Golden Ring" and "Near You". When asked about recording Jones and Wynette, Sherill told Dan Daley in 2002, "We started out trying to record the vocals together, but George drove Tammy crazy with his phrasing. He never, ever did it the same way twice. He could make a five-syllable word out of 'church.' Finally, Tammy said, 'Record George and let me listen to it, and then do my vocal after we get his on tape.' "
In October 1970, shortly after the birth of their only child Tamala Georgette, Jones was straitjacketed and committed to a padded cell at the Watson Clinic in Lakeland, Florida, after a drunken bender. He was kept there for 10 days to detoxify, before being released with a prescription for Librium. Jones managed to stay sober with Wynette for long periods, but as the decade wore on, his drinking and erratic behavior worsened and they divorced in 1976. Jones accepted responsibility for the failure of the marriage, but denied Wynette's allegations in her autobiography that he had beaten her and fired a shotgun at her. Jones and Wynette continued playing shows and drawing crowds after their divorce, as fans began to see their songs mirroring their stormy relationship. In 1980, they recorded the album Together Again and scored a hit with "Two Story House".  In the 2019 Ken Burns documentary Country Music, Jones and Wynette were compared to "two wounded animals". Jones also spoke of his hopes for a reconciliation, and would jokingly reference Wynette in some of his songs – during performances of his 1981 hit "If Drinkin' Don't Kill Me (Her Memory Will)" he would sing "Tammy's memory will" – but the recriminations continued. Jones and Wynette appeared to make peace in the 1990s, and recorded a final album, One, and toured together again before Wynette's death in 1998. In 1995, Jones told Country Weekly, "Like the old saying goes, it takes time to heal things and they've been healed quite a while."
Jones's pairing with Billy Sherrill at Epic Records came as a surprise to many; Sherrill and business partner Glenn Sutton are regarded as the defining influences of the countrypolitan sound, a smooth amalgamation of pop and country music that was popular during the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s, a far cry from George's honky-tonk roots. Despite a shaky start, the success that Sherrill had with Jones proved to be his most enduring; although Billboard chart statistics show that Sherrill had his biggest commercial successes with artists such as Wynette and Charlie Rich, with Jones, Sherrill had his longest-lasting association. In Sherrill, Jones found what Andrew Meuller of Uncut described as "the producer capable of creating the epically lachrymose arrangements his voice deserved and his torment demanded...He summoned for Jones the symphonies of sighing strings that almost made the misery of albums like 1974's The Grand Tour and 1976's Alone Again sound better than happiness could possibly feel."  In 1974, they scored a number-one hit with the instant classic "The Grand Tour" and followed that with "The Door" ("I've heard the sound of my dear old mother cryin'/and the sound of the train that took me off to war"), another number-one smash. Unlike most singers, who might have been overwhelmed by the string arrangements and background vocalists Sherrill sometimes employed on his records, Jones's voice, with its at times frightening intensity and lucid tone, could stand up to anything. While Jones wrote fewer songs himself – songwriters had been tripping over themselves pitching songs to him for years – he still managed to co-write several, such as "What My Woman Can't Do" (also recorded by Jerry Lee Lewis), "A Drunk Can't Be A Man", the harrowing "I Just Don't Give a Damn" (perhaps the greatest "lost classic" in the entire Jones catalogue), and "These Days (I Barely Get By)", which he had written with Wynette.
In the late 1970s, Jones spiraled out of control. Already drinking constantly, a manager named Shug Baggot introduced him to cocaine before a show because he was too tired to perform. The drug increased Jones's already considerable paranoia. During one drunken binge, he shot at, and very nearly hit, his friend and occasional songwriting partner Earl "Peanutt" Montgomery after Montgomery had quit drinking after finding religion. He was often penniless and acknowledged in his autobiography that Waylon Jennings and Johnny Cash came to his financial aid during this time. Jones also began missing shows at an alarming rate and lawsuits from promoters started piling up. In 1978, owing Wynette $36,000 in child support and claiming to be $1 million in debt, he filed for bankruptcy. Jones appeared incoherent at times, speaking in quarrelling voices that he would later call "the Duck" and "the Old Man". In his article "The Devil In George Jones", Nick Tosches states, "By February 1979, he was homeless, deranged, and destitute, living in his car and barely able to digest the junk food on which he subsisted. He weighed under a hundred pounds, and his condition was so bad that it took him more than two years to complete My Very Special Guests, an album on which Willie Nelson, Linda Ronstadt, Elvis Costello, and other famous fans came to his vocal aid and support. Jones entered Hillcrest Psychiatric Hospital in Birmingham, Alabama. Upon his release in January 1980, the first thing he did was pick up a six-pack."
Jones often displayed a sheepish, self-deprecating sense of humor regarding his dire financial standing and bad reputation. In June 1979, he appeared with Waylon Jennings on Ralph Emery's syndicated radio program, and at one point Jennings cracked, "It's lonely at the top."  A laughing Jones replied, "It's lonely at the bottom, too!  It's real, real lonely, Waylon."  Despite his chronic unreliability, Jones was still capable of putting on a captivating live show. On Independence Day, 1976, he appeared at Willie Nelson's Fourth of July Picnic in Gonzales, Texas, in front of 80,000 younger, country-rock oriented fans. A nervous Jones felt out of his comfort zone and nearly bolted from the festival, but went on anyway and wound up stealing the show. The Houston Post wrote, "He was the undisputed star of this year's Willie Nelson picnic...one of the greatest."  Penthouse called him "the spirit of country music, plain and simple, its Holy Ghost". The Village Voice added, "As a singer he is as intelligent as they come, and should be considered for a spot in America's all-time top ten."  Jones began missing more shows than he made, however, including several highly publicized dates at the Bottom Line club in New York City. Former vice president of CBS Records Rick Blackburn recalls in the 1989 video Same Ole Me that the event had been hyped for weeks, with a lot of top press and cast members from Saturday Night Live planning to attend. "We'd made our plans, travel arrangements, and so forth. George excused himself from my office, left – and we didn't see him for three weeks. He just did not show up."  Much like Hank Williams, Jones seemed suspicious of success and furiously despised perceived slights and condescension directed towards the music that he loved so dearly. When he finally played the Bottom Line in 1980, the New York Times called him "the finest, most riveting singer in country music".

Comeback (1980–1990)[edit]
This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (March 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
By 1980, George Jones had not achieved a number-one single in six years, leading many critics to doubt his career. However, he surprised the music industry when "He Stopped Loving Her Today" reached number one on the country charts, staying there for 18 weeks. The song, written by Bobby Braddock and Curly Putman, tells the story of a man who continues to love his departed lover until his death. Jones's poignant delivery of the song has made it one of the greatest country songs of all time. Jones's interpretation, buoyed by his delivery of the line "first time I'd seen him smile in years," gives it a mournful, gripping realism. It is consistently voted as one of the greatest country songs of all time, along with "I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry" by Hank Williams and "Crazy" by Patsy Cline.[14][15] Jones, who personally hated the song and considered it morbid, ultimately gave the song credit for reviving his flagging career, stating, "a four-decade career had been salvaged by a three-minute song".[16] Jones earned the Grammy Award for Best Male Country Vocal Performance in 1980. The Academy of Country Music awarded the song Single of the Year and Song of the Year in 1980. It also became the Country Music Association's Song of the Year in both 1980 and 1981.
The success of "He Stopped Loving Her Today" led CBS Records to renew Jones's recording contract and sparked new interest in the singer. He was the subject of an hour-and-a-quarter-long HBO television special entitled George Jones: With a Little Help from His Friends, which had him performing songs with Waylon Jennings, Elvis Costello, Tanya Tucker, and Tammy Wynette, among others. Jones continued drinking and using cocaine, appearing at various awards shows to accept honors for "He Stopped Loving Her Today" obviously inebriated, like when he performed "I Was Country When Country Wasn't Cool" with Barbara Mandrell at the 1981 Country Music Association Awards. He was involved in several high-speed car chases with police, which were reported on the national news, and one arrest was filmed by a local TV crew; the video, which is widely available online,[17] offers a glimpse into Jones's alter ego when drinking, as he argues with the police officer and lunges at the camera man. Conversely, when sober, Jones was known to be friendly and down to earth, even shy. In a 1994 article on Jones, Nick Tosches remarked that when he first interviewed the singer in April 1976, "One could readily believe the accounts by those who had known him for years: that he had not changed much at all and that he had been impervious to fame and fortune."  In an unusually unguarded self-appraisal in 1981, the singer told Mark Rose of The Village Voice, "I don't show a lot of affection. I have probably been a very unliked person among family, like somebody who was heartless. I saved it all for the songs. I didn't know you were supposed to show that love person to person. I guess I always wanted to, but I didn't know how. The only way I could would be to do it in a song."  Years later he commented to the Christian Broadcasting Network's Scott Ross about himself, "I think you're mad at yourself, I think that you're sayin' to yourself 'You don't deserve this. You don't deserve those fans. You don't deserve makin' this money.'  And you're mad at yourself. And you beat up on yourself by drinkin' and losing friends that won't put up with that...It's just one terrible big mess you make out of your life."  In 1982, Jones recorded the album A Taste of Yesterday's Wine with Merle Haggard; while Jones, in the wake of his condition, appeared underweight on the album cover, his singing was flawless.[citation needed]  His run of hits also continued in the early 1980s, with the singer charting "I'm Not Ready Yet", "Same Ole Me" (backed by the Oak Ridge Boys)", "Still Doin' Time", "Tennessee Whiskey", "We Didn't See a Thing" (a duet with Ray Charles), and "I Always Get Lucky with You", which was Jones's last number one in 1984.
In 1981, Jones met Nancy Sepulvado, a 34-year-old divorcée from Mansfield, Louisiana. Sepulvado's positive impact on Jones's life and career cannot be overstated.[18] She eventually cleaned up his finances, kept him away from his drug dealers (who reportedly kidnapped her daughter in retaliation), and managed his career. Jones always gave her complete credit for saving his life. Nancy, who did not drink, explained to Nick Tosches in 1994, "He was drinking but he was fun to be around. It wasn't love at first sight or anything like that. But I saw what a good person he was, deep down, and I couldn't help caring about him."  Jones managed to quit cocaine, but went on a drunken rampage in Alabama in fall 1983, and was once again straitjacketed and committed to Hillcrest Psychiatric Hospital suffering from malnutrition and delusions.[19]  By that time, though, physically and emotionally exhausted, he really did want to quit drinking. In March 1984 in Birmingham, Alabama – at the age of 52 – Jones performed his first sober show since the early '70s. "All my life it seems like I've been running from something," he told the United Press International in June. "If I knew what it was, maybe I could run in the right direction, but I always seem to end up going the other way."  Jones began making up many of the dates he had missed, playing them for free to pay back promoters, and began opening his concerts with "No Show Jones", a song he had written with Glen Martin that poked fun at himself and other country singers. Jones always stressed that he was not proud of the way he treated loved ones and friends over the years, and was ashamed of disappointing his fans when he missed shows, telling Billboard in 2006, "I know it hurt my fans in a way and I've always been sad about that, it really bothered me for a long time."
Mostly sober for the rest of the 1980s, Jones consistently released albums with Sherrill producing, including Shine On, Jones Country, You've Still Got A Place In My Heart, Who's Gonna Fill Their Shoes, Wine Colored Roses (an album Jones would tell Jolene Downs in 2001 was one of his personal favorites), Too Wild Too Long, and One Woman Man. Jones's video for his 1985 hit "Who's Gonna Fill Their Shoes" won the CMA award for Video of the Year  (Billy Sherrill makes a cameo as the bus driver).[20]

Later years and death (1990–2013)[edit]
In 1990, Jones released his last proper studio album on Epic, You Oughta Be Here With Me. Although the album featured several stirring performances, including the lead single "Hell Stays Open All Night Long" and the Roger Miller-penned title song, the single did poorly and Jones made the switch to MCA, ending his relationship with Sherrill and what was now Sony Music after 19 years. His first album with MCA, And Along Came Jones, was released in 1991, and backed by MCA's powerful promotion team and producer Kyle Lehning (who had produced a string of hit albums for Randy Travis), the album sold better than his previous one had. However, two singles, "You Couldn't Get The Picture" and "She Loved A Lot In Her Time" (a tribute to Jones's mother Clara), did not crack the top 30 on the charts, as Jones lost favor with country radio, as the format was altered radically during the early 1990s. His last album to have significant radio airplay was 1992's Walls Can Fall, which featured the novelty song "Finally Friday" and "I Don't Need Your Rockin' Chair", a testament to his continued vivaciousness in his sixties. Despite the lack of radio airplay, Jones continued to record and tour throughout the 1990s and was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame by Randy Travis in 1992. In 1996, Jones released his autobiography I Lived To Tell It All with Tom Carter, and the irony of his long career was not lost on him, with the singer writing in its preface, "I also know that a lot of my show-business peers are going to be angry after reading this book. So many have worked so hard to maintain their careers. I never took my career seriously, and yet it's flourishing."  He also pulled no punches about his disappointment in the direction country music had taken, devoting a full chapter to the changes in the country music scene of the 1990s that had him removed from radio playlists in favor of a younger generation of pop-influenced country stars. (Jones had long been a critic of country pop, and along with Wynette and Jean Shepard, he was one of the major backers of the Association of Country Entertainers, a guild promoting traditional country sounds that was founded in 1974; Jones's divorce from Wynette was a factor in the association's collapse.) Despite his absence from the country charts during this time, latter-day country superstars such as Garth Brooks, Randy Travis, Alan Jackson, and many others often paid tribute to Jones, while expressing their love and respect for his legacy as a true country legend who paved the way for their own success. On February 17, 1998, The Nashville Network premiered a group of television specials called The George Jones Show, with Jones as host.[7]  The program featured informal chats with Jones holding court with country's biggest stars old and new, and of course, music. Guests included Loretta Lynn, Trace Adkins, Johnny Paycheck, Lorrie Morgan, Merle Haggard, Billy Ray Cyrus, Tim McGraw, Faith Hill, Charley Pride, Bobby Bare, Patty Loveless, and Waylon Jennings, among others.
While Jones remained committed to "pure country", he worked with the top producers and musicians of the day and the quality of his work remained high. Some of his significant performances include "I Must Have Done Something Bad", "Wild Irish Rose", "Billy B. Bad" (a sarcastic jab at country music establishment trendsetters), "A Thousand Times A Day", "When The Last Curtain Falls", and the novelty "High-Tech Redneck". Jones's most popular song in his later years was "Choices", the first single from his 1999 studio album Cold Hard Truth. A video was also made for the song, and Jones won another Grammy for Best Male Country Vocal Performance. The song was at the center of controversy when the Country Music Association invited Jones to perform it on the awards show, but required that he perform an abridged version. Jones refused and did not attend the show. Alan Jackson was disappointed with the association's decision, and halfway through his own performance during the show, he signaled to his band and played part of Jones's song in protest.
On March 6, 1999, Jones was involved in an accident when he crashed his sport utility vehicle near his home. He was taken to the Vanderbilt University Medical Center (VUMC), where he was released two weeks later.[21] In May of that year, Jones pleaded guilty to drunk-driving charges related to the accident.[22]  (In his memoir published three years earlier, Jones admitted that he sometimes  had a glass of wine before dinner and that he still drank beer occasionally, but insisted, "I don't squirm in my seat, fighting the urge for another drink" and speculated, "perhaps I'm not a true alcoholic in the modern sense of the word. Perhaps I was always just an old fashioned drunk.")  
The crash was a significant turning point, as he explained to Billboard in 2006: "when I had that wreck, I made up my mind, it put the fear of God in me. No more smoking, no more drinking. I didn't have to have no help, I made up my mind to quit. I don't crave it." After the accident, Jones went on to release The Gospel Collection in 2003, for which Billy Sherrill came out of retirement to produce.[22]  He appeared at a televised Johnny Cash Memorial Concert in Jonesboro, Arkansas, in 2003, singing "Big River" with Willie Nelson and Kris Kristofferson. In 2008, Jones received the Kennedy Center Honor along with Pete Townshend and Roger Daltrey of The Who, Barbra Streisand, Morgan Freeman, and Twyla Tharp. President George W. Bush disclosed that he had many of Jones's songs on his iPod. Jones also served as judge in 2008 for the 8th annual Independent Music Awards to support independent artists' careers.[23] An album titled Hits I Missed and One I Didn't, in which he covered hits he had passed on, as well as a remake of his own "He Stopped Loving Her Today", would be released as his final studio album.[24] In 2012, Jones received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement award.[25]
On March 29, 2012, Jones was taken to the hospital with an upper respiratory infection.[26] Months later, on May 21, Jones was hospitalized again for his infection[27] and was released five days later.[28] On August 14, 2012, Jones announced his farewell tour, the Grand Tour, with scheduled stops at 60 cities.[29] His final concert was held in Knoxville at the Knoxville Civic Coliseum on April 6, 2013.

Jones's grave in Nashville
Jones was scheduled to perform his final concert at the Bridgestone Arena on November 22, 2013.[30] However, on April 18, 2013, Jones was taken to VUMC for a slight fever and irregular blood pressure. His concerts in Alabama and Salem were postponed as a result.[31] Following six days in intensive care at VUMC, Jones died on April 26, 2013, at age 81.[32][33]  Former First Lady Laura Bush was among those eulogizing Jones at his funeral on May 2, 2013. Other speakers were Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam, former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, news personality Bob Schieffer, and country singers Barbara Mandrell and Kenny Chesney. Alan Jackson, Kid Rock, Ronnie Milsap, Randy Travis, Vince Gill, Patty Loveless, Travis Tritt, the Oak Ridge Boys, Charlie Daniels, Wynonna, and Brad Paisley provided musical tributes.[34]  The service was broadcast live on CMT, GAC, RFD-TV, The Nashville Network and FamilyNet as well as Nashville stations. SiriusXM and WSM 650 AM, home of the Grand Ole Opry, broadcast the event on the radio. The family requested that contributions be made to the Grand Ole Opry Trust Fund or to the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum.[35]
Jones was buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in Nashville. His death made headlines all over the world; many country stations (as well as a few of other formats, such as oldies/classic hits) abandoned or modified their playlists and played his songs throughout the day.[citation needed]

Legacy[edit]
Further information: List of awards received by George Jones
Jones tirelessly defended the integrity of country music, telling Billboard in 2006, "It's never been for love of money. I thank God for it because it makes me a living. But I sing because I love it, not because of the dollar signs."[36] Jones also went out of his way to promote younger country singers that he felt were as passionate about the music as he was. "Everybody knows he's a great singer," Alan Jackson stated in 1995, "but what I like most about George is that when you meet him, he is like some old guy that works down at the gas station...even though he's a legend!"[This quote needs a citation]
Shortly after Jones's death, Andrew Mueller wrote about his influence in Uncut, "He was one of the finest interpretive singers who ever lifted a microphone...There cannot be a single country songwriter of the last 50-odd years who has not wondered what it might be like to hear their words sung by that voice."[37] In an article for The Texas Monthly in 1994, Nick Tosches eloquently described the singer's vocal style: "While he and his idol, Hank Williams, have both affected generations with a plaintive veracity of voice that has set them apart, Jones has an additional gift—a voice of exceptional range, natural elegance, and lucent tone. Gliding toward high tenor, plunging toward deep bass, the magisterial portamento of his onward-coursing baritone emits white-hot sparks and torrents of blue, investing his poison love songs with a tragic gravity and inflaming his celebrations of the honky-tonk ethos with the hellfire of abandon."[38] In an essay printed in The New Republic, David Hajdu writes:

"Jones had a handsome and strange voice. His singing was always partly about the appeal of the tones he produced, regardless of the meaning of the words. In this sense, Jones had something in common with singers of formal music and opera, though his means of vocal production were radically different from theirs. He sang from the back of his throat, rather than from deep in his diaphragm. He tightened his larynx to squeeze sound out. He clenched his jaw, instead of wriggling it free. He forced wind through his teeth, and the notes sounded weirdly beautiful."[39]
David Cantwell recalled in 2013, "His approach to singing, he told me once, was to call up those memories and feelings of his own that most closely corresponded to those being felt by the character in whatever song he was performing. He was a kind of singing method actor, creating an illusion of the real."[40] In the liner notes to Essential George Jones: The Spirit of Country Rich Kienzle states, "Jones sings of people and stories that are achingly human. He can turn a ballad into a catharsis by wringing every possible emotion from it, making it a primal, strangled cry of anguish". In 1994, country music historian Colin Escott pronounced, "Contemporary country music is virtually founded on reverence for George Jones. Walk through a room of country singers and conduct a quick poll, George nearly always tops it."[This quote needs a citation] Waylon Jennings expressed a similar opinion in his song "It's Alright": "If we all could sound like we wanted to, we'd all sound like George Jones."[41] In the wake of Jones's death, Merle Haggard pronounced in Rolling Stone, "His voice was like a Stradivarius violin: one of the greatest instruments ever made."[42] Emmylou Harris wrote, "When you hear George Jones sing, you are hearing a man who takes a song and makes it a work of art—always,"[38] a quote that appeared on the sleeve of Jones's 1976 album The Battle. 
Several country music stars praised Jones in the documentary Same Ole Me. Randy Travis said, "It sounds like he's lived every minute of every word that he sings and there's very few people who can do that."[This quote needs a citation] Tom T. Hall said, "It was always Jones who got the message across just right."[This quote needs a citation] Roy Acuff said, "I'd give anyth ing if I could sing like George Jones."[This quote needs a citation] In the same film, producer Billy Sherrill states, "All I did was change the instrumentation around him. I don't think he's changed at all."[This quote needs a citation]
In 2023, Rolling Stone ranked Jones at No. 24 on their list of the 200 Greatest Singers of All Time.[43]
Jones was the subject of the second season of the podcast Cocaine and Rhinestones, which contends Jones is the greatest country music singer ever.[44][45]

Duets[edit]
Jones released many duets over the course of his career. While his songs with Tammy Wynette are his best known, Jones claimed in his autobiography that he felt his duets with Melba Montgomery were his best. Jones also recorded duet albums with Gene Pitney and his former bass player Johnny Paycheck. Jones also recorded the duet albums My Very Special Guests (1979), A Taste of Yesterday's Wine with Merle Haggard (1982), Ladies Choice (1984), Friends In High Places (1991), The Bradley Barn Sessions (1994), God's Country: George Jones And Friends (2006), a second album with Merle Haggard called Kickin' Out The Footlights...Again (2006), and Burn Your Playhouse Down (2008).

Discography[edit]
Further information: George Jones albums discography, George Jones singles discography, and George Jones and Tammy Wynette discography
Number-one country hits[edit]
"White Lightning" (1959)
"Tender Years" (1961)
"She Thinks I Still Care" (1962)
"Walk Through This World with Me" (1967)
"We're Gonna Hold On" (with Tammy Wynette) (1973)
"The Grand Tour" (1974)
"The Door" (1975)
"Golden Ring" (with Tammy Wynette) (1976)
"Near You" (with Tammy Wynette) (1977)
"He Stopped Loving Her Today" (1980)
"Still Doin' Time" (1981)
"Yesterday's Wine" (with Merle Haggard) (1982)
"I Always Get Lucky with You" (1983)
See also[edit]

Biography portal
Academy of Country Music
Country Music Association
Inductees of the Country Music Hall of Fame (1992 inductee)
List of best-selling music artists
List of country musicians
References[edit]


^ "About George Jones". Country Music Television. Archived from the original on February 18, 2015. Retrieved October 9, 2012.

^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "George Jones Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved April 10, 2012.

^ Yorke, Jeffrey (July 30, 1984). "Jammed Jamboree". The Washington Post. Retrieved December 25, 2022.

^ User, Guest (April 7, 2017). "When the Hippies Came to Nashville". THE BITTER SOUTHERNER. Retrieved July 19, 2024. {{cite web}}: |last= has generic name (help)

^ Gallagher, Pat (December 18, 2009). "George Jones Makes Peace With His Nicknames". The Boot. Retrieved December 20, 2019.

^ Jones & Carter 1996, p. 16.

^ a b c d e Skinker, Chris (February 17, 1998). "George Jones". Country Music Television. Archived from the original on November 10, 2013. Retrieved May 15, 2013.

^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas (2003). All Music Guide to Country (2nd ed.). San Francisco: Backbeat. p. 387. ISBN 0-87930-760-9.

^ Waddell, Ray (April 26, 2013). "George Jones: The Billboard Interview (2006)". Billboard. Retrieved December 20, 2019.

^ Haggard, Merle (May 6, 2013). "Merle Haggard Remembers George Jones". Rolling Stone. Retrieved February 5, 2017.

^ Ashley, Tim. "Dan Schafer Artist performances". Tripod. Retrieved February 5, 2012.

^ Jones & Carter 1996, pp. 112–113.

^ Wynette, Tammy; Dew, Joan (1979). Stand By Your Man. New York: Simon & Schuster. p. 200.

^ Powell, Mike (June 1, 2014). "100 Greatest Country Songs of All Time: 4. George Jones, 'He Stopped Loving Her Today' (1980)". Rolling Stone. Retrieved December 20, 2019.

^ "Top Ten Best Country Songs of All Time: 1. He Stopped Loving Her Today – George Jones". The Top Tens. Retrieved December 20, 2019.

^ Jones & Carter 1996, p. 253.

^ Drunk Country Singer George "The Possum" Jones arrest, December 6, 2022, retrieved January 4, 2023

^ Schmitt, Brad. "Nancy Jones: God sent me to save George Jones". The Tennessean. Retrieved January 4, 2023.

^ Tosches, Nick (July 1, 1994). "The Devil in George Jones". Texas Monthly. Retrieved August 22, 2024.

^ Staff, The Boot StaffThe Boot (March 4, 2024). "41 Years Ago: George Jones Marries Nancy Sepulvado". The Boot. Retrieved August 22, 2024.

^ Ryan, Joal (March 19, 1999). "George Jones Cheats Death". E! Online. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ a b Mellen, Kim (October 22, 1999). "No-Show Jones". The Austin Chronicle. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ "Past Judges". Independent Music Awards. Archived from the original on July 13, 2011. Retrieved October 9, 2012.

^ "News". George Jones. Archived from the original on April 25, 2013. Retrieved April 28, 2013.

^ Haggard, Merle (February 2, 2012). "Lifetime Achievement Award: George Jones". Grammy.com. Archived from the original on February 11, 2012. Retrieved October 9, 2012.

^ "George Jones Hospitalized with Upper Respiratory Infection". Webster & Associates. March 29, 2012. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ "George Jones Admitted into Nashville Hospital". Webster & Associates. May 21, 2012. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ "George Jones Released from Hospital". Webster & Associates. May 26, 2012. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2012.

^ "George Jones Announces the Grand Tour in 2013". Webster & Associates. August 14, 2012. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ "Country Music Icon George Jones Announces Final Nashville Concert of Career". Webster & Associates. November 12, 2012. Archived from the original on October 2, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ Grossberg, Josh (April 19, 2013). "George Jones Hospitalized in Nashville". E! Online. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ Italie, Hillel; Talbott, Chris (April 26, 2013). "Country music superstar George Jones dead at 81". CTV News. Retrieved April 28, 2013.

^ Scutti, Susan (April 26, 2013). "George Jones Died Today Of Hypoxic Respiratory Failure At Age 81". Medical Daily. Archived from the original on May 5, 2013. Retrieved May 16, 2013.

^ Hudak, Joseph (April 30, 2013). "Laura Bush to Eulogize George Jones". Country Weekly. Archived from the original on December 3, 2013. Retrieved December 20, 2019.

^ Danton, Eric R. (April 29, 2013). "George Jones' Funeral Will Be Open to the Public". Rolling Stone. Retrieved December 20, 2019.

^ Waddell, Ray (April 26, 2013). "George Jones: The Billboard Interview (2006)". Billboard. Retrieved October 4, 2013.

^ Mueller, Andrew (July 2013). "George Jones: 1931-2013 – "He could make you cry with his voice..."". Rock's Back Pages. Retrieved October 5, 2023.

^ a b Tosches, Nick (July 1994). "The Devil in George Jones". Texas Monthly. Retrieved October 6, 2023.

^ Hajdu, David (June 3, 2013). "Why George Jones Ranks with Frank Sinatra and Billie Holiday". The New Republic. Retrieved October 9, 2023.

^ Cantwell, David (April 26, 2013). "The True Genius of George Jones". Slate. Retrieved October 10, 2023.

^ Ryan, Aaron (July 9, 2023). "Waylon Jennings Recalls Hog-Tying A Drunk & Out Of Control George Jones". Whiskey Riff. Retrieved October 11, 2023.

^ Haggard, Merle (May 6, 2013). "Merle Haggard Remembers George Jones". Rolling Stone. Retrieved October 12, 2023.

^ "The 200 Greatest Singers of All Time". Rolling Stone. January 1, 2023. Retrieved October 3, 2023.

^ "The Keeper of Country Music's Tall Tales and Secret Histories". April 8, 2021.

^ "Cocaine & Rhinestones' host is finally launching its second podcast season". The Washington Post. September 2021.


Works cited[edit]
Jones, George; Carter, Tom (1996). I Lived to Tell it All. Villard. ISBN 978-0-679-43869-4.
Further reading[edit]
Dawidoff, Nicholas (1998). In the Country of Country: A Journey to the Roots of American Music. Vintage Books. ISBN 0-375-70082-X..
Malone, Bill C. (1985). Country Music USA. University of Texas Press. ISBN 0-292-71096-8..
Joel Whitburn's Top Country Songs, 1944 to 2005, Record Research, Menomonee Falls, WI, 2005, ISBN 0-89820-165-9.
External links[edit]



Wikiquote has quotations related to George Jones.




Wikimedia Commons has media related to George Jones (musician).

Official website
George Jones at AllMusic 
Bandit Records (record label)
George Jones at IMDb
vteGeorge Jones
Albums
Singles
Discography with Tammy Wynette
Awards
Solo studio albums
Grand Ole Opry's New Star
Country Church Time
White Lightning and Other Favorites
George Jones Salutes Hank Williams
George Jones Sings Country and Western Hits
George Jones Sings from the Heart
George Jones Sings Bob Wills
Homecoming in Heaven
My Favorites of Hank Williams
I Wish Tonight Would Never End
George Jones Sings Like the Dickens!
I Get Lonely in a Hurry
The Race Is On
Mr. Country & Western Music
New Country Hits
Old Brush Arbors
Trouble in Mind
Country Heart
Love Bug
I'm a People
We Found Heaven Right Here on Earth at "4033"
Walk Through This World with Me
George Jones Sings the Songs of Dallas Frazier
The George Jones Story
My Country
If My Heart Had Windows
I'll Share My World with You
Where Grass Won't Grow
Will You Visit Me on Sunday
George Jones with Love
George Jones Sings the Great Songs of Leon Payne
George Jones (We Can Make It)
A Picture of Me (Without You)
Nothing Ever Hurt Me (Half as Bad as Losing You)
In a Gospel Way
The Grand Tour
Memories of Us
The Battle
Alone Again
I Wanta Sing
Bartender's Blues
My Very Special Guests
I Am What I Am
Still the Same Ole Me
Shine On
Jones Country
You've Still Got a Place in My Heart
Ladies' Choice
Who's Gonna Fill Their Shoes
Wine Colored Roses
Too Wild Too Long
One Woman Man
You Oughta Be Here with Me
And Along Came Jones
Walls Can Fall
High-Tech Redneck
The Bradley Barn Sessions
I Lived to Tell It All
It Don't Get Any Better Than This
Cold Hard Truth
The Rock: Stone Cold Country 2001
The Gospel Collection
Hits I Missed...And One I Didn't
Burn Your Playhouse Down – The Unreleased Duets
Collaborative studio albums
What's in Our Heart (with Melba Montgomery)
Close Together (As You and Me) (with Melba Montgomery)
Bluegrass Hootenanny (with Melba Montgomery)
George Jones & Gene Pitney – For the First Time! Two Great Stars
George Jones & Gene Pitney – Recorded in Nashville, Tennessee! (with Gene Pitney)
It's Country Time Again! (with Gene Pitney)
Double Trouble (with Johnny Paycheck)
A Taste of Yesterday's Wine (with Merle Haggard)
Kickin' Out the Footlights...Again (with Merle Haggard)
George Jones & The Smoky Mountain Boys
Compilation albums
Hillbilly Hit Parade
George Jones Singing 14 Top Country Song Favorites
George Jones Sings His Greatest Hits
The Fabulous Country Music Sound of George Jones
Long Live King George
The Crown Prince of Country Music
A King & Two Queens (with Judy Lynn and Melba Montgomery)
Blue & Lonesome
Heartaches & Tears
Famous Country Duets
Hits by George
The Best of George Jones
All-Time Greatest Hits, Vol. 1
Encore
Anniversary – 10 Years of Hits
By Request
Super Hits
Friends in High Places
Super Hits, Volume 2
16 Biggest Hits
50 Years of Hits
God's Country: George Jones and Friends
Live albums
First Time Live
Live at Dancetown U.S.A.
Live with the Possum
Related artists
Merle Haggard
Melba Montgomery
Johnny Paycheck
Gene Pitney
Margie Singleton
Tammy Wynette
Related articles
George & Tammy

vteGeorge Jones singles
Albums
Singles
Discography with Tammy Wynette
Awards
1950s
"No Money in This Deal"
"Play It Cool, Man"
"You All Goodnight"
"Why Baby Why"
"What Am I Worth"
"I'm Ragged But I'm Right"
"Rock It"
"You Gotta Be My Baby"
"Just One More"
"Don't Stop the Music"
"Too Much Water"
"Tall, Tall Trees"
"Seasons of My Heart"
"Too Much Water"
"Treasure of Love"
"White Lightning"
"Who Shot Sam"
"Big Harlan Taylor"
1960s
"Accidentally on Purpose"
"Out of Control"
"The Window Up Above"
"Family Bible"
"Tender Years"
"Aching, Breaking Heart"
"She Thinks I Still Care"
"Open Pit Mine"
"A Girl I Used to Know"
"Your Heart Turned Left (And I Was on the Right)"
"I'll Share My World with You
"The Race Is On"
"Love Bug"
"Take Me"
"I'm a People"
"Walk Through This World with Me"
"I Can't Get There from Here"
"If My Heart Had Windows"
"Say It's Not You"
"Small Time Laboring Man"
"As Long as I Live"
"Milwaukee, Here I Come" (with Brenda Carter)
"When the Grass Grows Over Me"
"I'll Share My World with You"
"If Not for You"
"She's Mine"
1970s
"Where Grass Won't Grow"
"Tell Me My Lying Eyes Are Wrong"
"A Good Year for the Roses"
"Sometimes You Just Can't Win"
"Right Won't Touch a Hand"
"I'll Follow You (Up to Our Cloud)"
"We Can Make It"
"Loving You Could Never Be Better"
"A Picture of Me (Without You)"
"What My Woman Can't Do"
"Nothing Ever Hurt Me (Half as Bad as Losing You)"
"Once You've Had the Best"
"The Grand Tour"
"The Door"
"These Days (I Barely Get By)"
"Memories of Us"
"The Battle"
"You Always Look Your Best (Here in My Arms)"
"Her Name Is"
"Old King Kong"
"If I Could Put Them All Together (I'd Have You)"
"Bartender's Blues"
"I'll Just Take It Out in Love"
"Someday My Day Will Come"
1980s
"He Stopped Loving Her Today"
"I'm Not Ready Yet"
"If Drinkin' Don't Kill Me (Her Memory Will)"
"Still Doin' Time"
"Same Ole Me"
"Shine On (Shine All Your Sweet Love on Me)"
"I Always Get Lucky with You"
"Tennessee Whiskey"
"You've Still Got a Place in My Heart"
"She's My Rock"
"Hallelujah, I Love You So" (with Brenda Lee)
"Who's Gonna Fill Their Shoes" (with Lacy J. Dalton)
"The One I Loved Back Then (The Corvette Song)"
"Somebody Wants Me Out of the Way"
"Wine Colored Roses"
"The Right Left Hand"
"I Turn to You"
"The Bird"
"I'm a Survivor"
"The Old Man No One Loves"
"If I Could Bottle This Up" (with Shelby Lynne)
"I'm a One Woman Man"
"The King Is Gone (So Are You)"
"Writing on the Wall"
"Radio Lover"
1990s
"You Couldn't Get the Picture"
"I Don't Need Your Rockin' Chair"
"Honky Tonk Song"
"Choices"
As a collaborative artist
"Yearning" (with Jeanette Hicks)
"Did I Ever Tell You" (with Margie Singleton)
"Waltz of the Angels" (with Margie Singleton)
"We Must Have Been Out of Our Minds" (with Melba Montgomery)
"Let's Invite Them Over" (with Melba Montgomery)
"Please Be My Love" (with Melba Montgomery)
"What's in Our Heart" (with Melba Montgomery)
"Things Have Gone to Pieces" (with Gene Pitney)
"I've Got Five Dollars and It's Saturday Night" (with Gene Pitney)
"Blue Moon of Kentucky" (with Melba Montgomery)
"That's All It Took (with Gene Pitney)
"Maybellene" (with Johnny Paycheck)
"You Can Have Her" (with Johnny Paycheck)
"When You're Ugly Like Us (You Just Naturally Got to Be Cool)" (with Johnny Paycheck)
"You Better Move On" (with Johnny Paycheck)
"Yesterday's Wine" (with Merle Haggard)
"C.C. Waterback" (with Merle Haggard)
As a featured artist
"We Didn't See a Thing" (Ray Charles with Chet Atkins and George Jones)
"A Few Ole Country Boys" (Randy Travis featuring George Jones)
"You Don't Seem to Miss Me" (Patty Loveless with George Jones)
"A Country Boy Can Survive (Y2K version)" (Chad Brock featuring George Jones and Hank Williams, Jr.)
"Country Boy" (Aaron Lewis featuring Charlie Daniels and George Jones)
Promotional singles
"Wrong Number"
Other charted songs
"Money to Burn"
"Big Fool of the Year"
"I Saw Me"
"What's in Our Heart" (with Melba Montgomery)
"My Tears Are Overdue"
"I Just Don't Give a Damn"
"He Stopped Loving Her Today"

vteGeorge Jones and Tammy Wynette
Discography
George Jones albums
George Jones singles
Tammy Wynette albums
Tammy Wynette singles
Studio albums
We Go Together (1971)
Me and the First Lady (1972)
We Love to Sing About Jesus (1972)
Let's Build a World Together (1973)
We're Gonna Hold On (1973)
George & Tammy & Tina (1975)
Golden Ring (1976)
Together Again (1980)
One (1995)
Compilation albums
Greatest Hits (1977)
George and Tammy Super Hits (1995)
Singles
"Take Me"
"The Ceremony"
"Let's Build a World Together"
"We're Gonna Hold On"
"(We're Not) The Jet Set"
"We Loved It Away"
"Golden Ring"
"Near You"
"Southern California"
"Two Story House"
"A Pair of Old Sneakers"

George & Tammy

Awards for George Jones
vteCMA Male Vocalist of the Year
Jack Greene (1967)
Glen Campbell (1968)
Johnny Cash (1969)
Merle Haggard (1970)
Charley Pride (1971)
Charley Pride (1972)
Charlie Rich (1973)
Ronnie Milsap (1974)
Waylon Jennings (1975)
Ronnie Milsap (1976)
Ronnie Milsap (1977)
Don Williams (1978)
Kenny Rogers (1979)
George Jones (1980)
George Jones (1981)
Ricky Skaggs (1982)
Lee Greenwood (1983)
Lee Greenwood (1984)
George Strait (1985)
George Strait (1986)
Randy Travis (1987)
Randy Travis (1988)
Ricky Van Shelton (1989)
Clint Black (1990)
Vince Gill (1991)
Vince Gill (1992)
Vince Gill (1993)
Vince Gill (1994)
Vince Gill (1995)
George Strait (1996)
George Strait (1997)
George Strait (1998)
Tim McGraw (1999)
Tim McGraw (2000)
Toby Keith (2001)
Alan Jackson (2002)
Alan Jackson (2003)
Keith Urban (2004)
Keith Urban (2005)
Keith Urban (2006)
Brad Paisley (2007)
Brad Paisley (2008)
Brad Paisley (2009)
Blake Shelton (2010)
Blake Shelton (2011)
Blake Shelton (2012)
Blake Shelton (2013)
Blake Shelton (2014)
Chris Stapleton (2015)
Chris Stapleton (2016)
Chris Stapleton (2017)
Chris Stapleton (2018)
Luke Combs (2019)
Luke Combs (2020)
Chris Stapleton (2021)
Chris Stapleton (2022)
Chris Stapleton (2023)

vteCountry Music Hall of Fame 1990s
Tennessee Ernie Ford (1990)
Felice and Boudleaux Bryant (1991)
George Jones (1992)
Frances Preston (1992)
Willie Nelson (1993)
Merle Haggard (1994)
Roger Miller (1995)
Jo Walker-Meador (1995)
Patsy Montana (1996)
Buck Owens (1996)
Ray Price (1996)
Harlan Howard (1997)
Brenda Lee (1997)
Cindy Walker (1997)
George Morgan (1998)
Elvis Presley (1998)
E.W. "Bud" Wendell (1998)
Tammy Wynette (1998)
Johnny Bond (1999)
Dolly Parton (1999)
Conway Twitty (1999)

vteKennedy Center Honorees (2000s)2000
Mikhail Baryshnikov
Chuck Berry
Plácido Domingo
Clint Eastwood
Angela Lansbury
2001
Julie Andrews
Van Cliburn
Quincy Jones
Jack Nicholson
Luciano Pavarotti
2002
James Earl Jones
James Levine
Chita Rivera
Paul Simon
Elizabeth Taylor
2003
James Brown
Carol Burnett
Loretta Lynn
Mike Nichols
Itzhak Perlman
2004
Warren Beatty
Ossie Davis & Ruby Dee
Elton John
Joan Sutherland
John Williams
2005
Tony Bennett
Suzanne Farrell
Julie Harris
Robert Redford
Tina Turner
2006
Zubin Mehta
Dolly Parton
Smokey Robinson
Steven Spielberg
Andrew Lloyd Webber
2007
Leon Fleisher
Steve Martin
Diana Ross
Martin Scorsese
Brian Wilson
2008
Morgan Freeman
George Jones
Barbra Streisand
Twyla Tharp
Pete Townshend & Roger Daltrey
2009
Mel Brooks
Dave Brubeck
Grace Bumbry
Robert De Niro
Bruce Springsteen

Complete list
1970s
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s
2020s

vteNational Medal of Arts recipients (2000s)2000
Maya Angelou
Eddy Arnold
Mikhail Baryshnikov
Benny Carter
Chuck Close
Horton Foote
Lewis Manilow
National Public Radio, cultural programming division
Claes Oldenburg
Itzhak Perlman
Harold Prince
Barbra Streisand
2001
Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation
Rudolfo Anaya
Johnny Cash
Kirk Douglas
Helen Frankenthaler
Judith Jamison
Yo-Yo Ma
Mike Nichols
2002
Florence Knoll Bassett
Trisha Brown
Philippe de Montebello
Uta Hagen
Lawrence Halprin
Al Hirschfeld
George Jones
Ming Cho Lee
William "Smokey" Robinson
2003
Austin City Limits
Beverly Cleary
Rafe Esquith
Suzanne Farrell
Buddy Guy
Ron Howard
Tabernacle Choir
Leonard Slatkin
George Strait
Tommy Tune
2004
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Ray Bradbury
Carlisle Floyd
Frederick Hart
Anthony Hecht
John Ruthven
Vincent Scully
Twyla Tharp
2005
Louis Auchincloss
James DePreist
Paquito D'Rivera
Robert Duvall
Leonard Garment
Ollie Johnston
Wynton Marsalis
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
Tina Ramirez
Dolly Parton
2006
William Bolcom
Cyd Charisse
Roy DeCarava
Wilhelmina Holladay
Interlochen Center for the Arts
Erich Kunzel
Preservation Hall Jazz Band
Gregory Rabassa
Viktor Schreckengost
Ralph Stanley
2007
Morten Lauridsen
N. Scott Momaday
Craig Noel
Roy Neuberger
Les Paul
Henry Z. Steinway
George Tooker
Lionel Hampton Jazz Festival (University of Idaho)
Andrew Wyeth
2008
Stan Lee
Richard M. Sherman
Robert B. Sherman
Olivia de Havilland
Hank Jones
Jesús Moroles
Ford's Theatre Society
Fisk Jubilee Singers, (Fisk University)
José Limón Dance Foundation
The Presser Foundation
2009
Bob Dylan
Clint Eastwood
Milton Glaser
Maya Lin
Rita Moreno
Jessye Norman
Joseph P. Riley Jr.
Frank Stella
Michael Tilson Thomas
John Williams
Oberlin Conservatory of Music
School of American Ballet

Complete list
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s

vteTammy Wynette
Albums
Singles
Discography with George Jones
Awards and nominations
Studio albums
Your Good Girl's Gonna Go Bad (1967)
My Elusive Dreams (with David Houston) (1967)
Take Me to Your World / I Don't Wanna Play House (1968)
D-I-V-O-R-C-E (1968)
Stand by Your Man (1969)
Inspiration (1969)
The Ways to Love a Man (1970)
Tammy's Touch (1970)
The First Lady (1970)
Christmas with Tammy (1970)
We Sure Can Love Each Other (1971)
Bedtime Story (1972)
My Man (1972)
Another Lonely Song (1974)
Woman to Woman (1974)
I Still Believe in Fairy Tales (1975)
'Til I Can Make It on My Own (1976)
You and Me (1976)
Let's Get Together (1977)
One of a Kind (1977)
Womanhood (1978)
Just Tammy (1979)
Only Lonely Sometimes (1980)
You Brought Me Back (1981)
Soft Touch (1982)
Good Love & Heartbreak (1982)
Even the Strong Get Lonely (1983)
Sometimes When We Touch (1985)
Higher Ground (1987)
Next to You (1989)
Heart over Mind (1990)
Without Walls (1994)
Compilation albums
Tammy's Greatest Hits (1969)
The World of Tammy Wynette (1970)
Straight from the Heart (with David Houston) (1971)
Tammy's Greatest Hits, Volume II (1971)
Kids Say the Darndest Things (1973)
Television and tributes
George & Tammy
Stand by Your Man
Tammy Wynette Remembered
Related artists and people
Billy Sherrill
David Houston
George Jones
Burt Reynolds
George Richey
The KLF
Dolly Parton
Loretta Lynn
Related articles
Grand Ole Opry
Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataItalyAustraliaCzech RepublicSpainNetherlandsNorwayLatviaPolandIsraelBelgiumArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy AwardsPeopleTroveOtherIdRefSNAC



