American singer-songwriter and musician (born 1981)
For other people named Holly Williams, see Holly Williams (disambiguation).
This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Holly Williams" musician – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)


Holly WilliamsWilliams performing live in Saint Helena, California, in 2014Background informationBirth nameHolly Audrey WilliamsBorn (1981-03-12) March 12, 1981 (age 43)[1][2]Cullman, Alabama, U.SOriginNashville, Tennessee, U.S.GenresCountryAmericanafolkOccupationsSinger-songwritermusicianInstrumentsGuitarvocalskeyboardsYears active2003–presentLabelsUniversal SouthMercury NashvilleGeorgianaSpouse
Chris Coleman ​(m. 2009)​Websitehollywilliams.comChildren4
Musical artist
Holly Audrey Williams (born March 12, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter and musician. She is the granddaughter of Hank Williams, the niece of Jett Williams, daughter of Hank Williams Jr., half-sister of Hank Williams III, and aunt of Coleman Williams. Williams has released three studio albums: The Ones We Never Knew in 2004, Here with Me in 2009 and The Highway in 2013. The Highway was released on Williams' own label, Georgiana Records, and reached No. 146 on the Billboard 200


Early life[edit]
Williams's mother, Becky, is a native of Mer Rouge, Louisiana, and was married to Hank Williams Jr. for a decade.[1][dead link][3] She was born in Cullman, Alabama, and has an elder sister named Hilary. Her parents separated when she was young. At age 17, Williams began playing one of her father's guitars, and soon began writing songs.
Williams attended elementary school at St. Paul Christian Academy in Nashville, Tennessee. She graduated from Brentwood Academy and decided to pursue her passion of songwriting and continue playing guitar and piano. She purchased her domain name, recorded an EP, initiated a website, and booked herself at various Nashville clubs.

Career[edit]
Soon after signing with CAA, she performed many shows throughout the US and usually toured alone with a guitar and keyboard driving her mother's car across the country. She went to the UK to open for songwriter Ron Sexsmith with a backpack full of EPs and a guitar. After the release of her first EP in 2003, she signed with Universal South Records and toured with Billy Bob Thornton, Jewel, Train, Keith Urban, and Kasey Chambers. Universal South released her debut album, The Ones We Never Knew, in 2004.[1][3]
In March 2006, Williams was injured in a car crash with her sister Hilary Williams, and canceled her upcoming tour. Her sister was seriously injured, enduring 23 surgeries.[4] Holly Williams' right arm and wrist were broken; she was unsure of when she would play again. She wrote "Without Jesus Here with Me" about her experience during the time of the car accident; it was released on her next record. Hilary Williams wrote a book called Sign of Life about her experience.[4] Holly Williams made small musical appearances at this time, one of them joining John C. Reilly in Nashville, Tennessee, to sing "Let's Duet" during the release of Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story on December 9, 2007.
After a long break Williams began playing guitar and writing songs again, she signed with Luke Lewis at Mercury Records. Williams' second studio album, Here with Me, was released in June 2009. To promote the album, Williams appeared on The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien, The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson, Jimmy Kimmel Live! and Chelsea Lately. People magazine named Williams' 2009 album "one of the top ten albums of the year". Billboard said it was "one of the best singer/songwriter albums to come out of Nashville". USA Today said "Hank Williams' granddaughter reveals a heart-on-sleeve intensity that might be grating were it not for the purity and potency of her milk-and-whiskey-kissed singing and the catchy clarity and integrity of her songs".[5] She filmed a music video for "Alone" and "Three Days in Bed" in Paris.
Williams finished a six-week tour in Europe in early 2010, and continued the rest of the year headlining gigs and opening for other artists such as John Hiatt.  After Bob Dylan called, Williams added her own music and lyrics to a half written Hank Williams Sr. lyric for a project entitled The Lost Notebooks of Hank Williams that he assembled, released in September 2011. Jack White, Norah Jones, Merle Haggard and Lucinda Williams were alongside Williams for this project.
Williams was also a part of Let Us In, a project produced by Phil Madeira which includes artists singing their favorite Paul McCartney songs in tribute to Linda McCartney. Williams performed "My Love" from the Wings era. Steve Earle and Buddy Miller are also included on the album.

Williams performing in 2008
Williams was featured on the soundtrack for Flicka singing "Rodeo Road", written by Tom Douglas and Chuck Cannon. Tim McGraw (who starred in Flicka) named Williams, The Fray and Coldplay as his favorite artists in O, The Oprah Magazine saying "She has the ability to make you believe what she says, to make you feel vulnerable. She's intense and moody; she puts you in a time and place where you never would have imagined yourself—and then you're there."[6] Mel Gibson met with Williams in Nashville and featured her on The Passion of The Christ soundtrack singing "How Can You Refuse Him Now", written by her grandfather.
Williams' third album, The Highway, co-produced by Williams and Charlie Peacock was released on February 5, 2013. She wrote or co-wrote every song on the album, which is common for her recordings.  This album includes Dierks Bentley, Jakob Dylan, Gwyneth Paltrow and Jackson Browne adding backing harmonies. The Highway was released to critical acclaim. American Songwriter magazine said "Williams has recorded her most accomplished, mature and world weary album. Even Hank Sr. would be proud."[7] The New York Times stated "Williams is often closer to songwriters like John Prine or Bruce Springsteen, than the smiley Nashville mainstream."[8] People Magazine gave the album three and a half stars and said the album was "sure to go down as one of the year's best country albums".[9] A music video for "Drinkin'" aired on CMT networks.

Boutique[edit]
Williams' store "H. Audrey" is a women's clothes boutique in Nashville.[10]

Personal life[edit]
Williams was married on September 27, 2009, to fellow musician Chris Coleman (who co-wrote three of the songs on The Highway) and they settled in Nashville, Tennessee.[11] They have four children.[12]

Discography[edit]
Studio albums[edit]


Title

Details

Peak chart positions


US Country[13]

US

USHeat[14]

USIndie

USFolk


The Ones We Never Knew


Release date: October 5, 2004
Label: Universal South
Formats: CD, digital download

—

—

—

—

—


Here with Me


Release date: June 16, 2009
Label: Mercury Nashville
Formats: CD, digital download

37

—

11

—

—


The Highway


Release date: February 5, 2013
Label: Georgiana Records
Formats: Vinyl, CD, digital download

18

146

1

24

8


"—" denotes releases that did not chart

Singles[edit]


Year

Single

Peak positions

Album


US Country[15]


2005

"Sometimes"

—

The Ones We Never Knew


2009

"Keep the Change"

53

Here with Me


"Mama"

55


"—" denotes releases that did not chart

Music videos[edit]


Year

Video

Director


2005

"Sometimes"

Kristin Barlowe


2009

"Keep the Change"

Philip Andelman


"Three Days in Bed"


"Mama"

Eric Welch


"Alone"

Philip Andelman


2013

"Drinkin'"

John Moessner


"The Highway"[16]

David McClister


2014

"Waiting on June"[17]

John Moessner


2016

"I'm Telling You"[18](with John Prine)

Joshua Britt/Neilson Hubbard

References[edit]


^ a b c "Holly Williams biography". CMT. Archived from the original on May 1, 2009. Retrieved April 29, 2009.

^ "Holly Williams Biography | Ken Burns". Country Music. Retrieved December 24, 2019.

^ a b Jeffries, David. "Holly Williams biography". Allmusic. Retrieved April 29, 2009.

^ a b "Hilary Williams Recalls Tragic Car Accident in Sign of Life". Country Music Television. December 21, 2010. Archived from the original on February 20, 2014. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ "Listen Up: JoBros grow up through the 'Trying Times'". USA Today. June 19, 2009. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ "What's Playing in Tim McGraw's Ear?". O, The Oprah Magazine. October 2009. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ "Holly Williams: The Highway". American Songwriter. February 5, 2013. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ Jon Pareles (February 22, 2013). "R&B From Another Edge, Jazz When It Was Still Fusing". New York Times. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ Arnold, Chuck; Grerr, Carlos (February 18, 2013). "Music". People. Vol. 79, no. 7. p. 49.

^ "Nashville Faces: Holly Williams". Nashville Lifestyles. Archived from the original on November 2, 2014. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ "Country Singer Holly Williams Gets Married". People. September 28, 2009. Retrieved September 14, 2014.

^ Eileen Finan (September 30, 2014). "Holly Williams Welcomes Daughter Stella June". Archived from the original on May 27, 2017. Retrieved September 30, 2014.

^ "Holly Williams Album & Song Chart History – Country Albums". Billboard. Retrieved March 26, 2011.

^ "Holly Williams Album & Song Chart History – Heatseekers Albums". Billboard. Archived from the original on February 4, 2022. Retrieved March 26, 2011.

^ "Holly Williams Album & Song Chart History - Country Songs". Billboard. Retrieved March 26, 2011.

^ "CMT : Videos : Holly Williams : The Highway". Country Music Television. Archived from the original on December 12, 2013. Retrieved December 10, 2013.

^ "CMT : Videos : Holly Williams : Waiting on June". Country Music Television. Archived from the original on October 2, 2014. Retrieved September 29, 2014.

^ "CMT : Videos : John Prine, Holly Williams : I'm Telling You (feat. Holly Williams)". Country Music Television. Archived from the original on September 17, 2016. Retrieved September 16, 2016.


External links[edit]
Official website
vteHank Williams
Discography
Songs
Albums
Hank Williams Sings
Moanin' the Blues
Memorial Album
Hank Williams as Luke the Drifter
Hank Williams on Stage
40 Greatest Hits
The Complete Hank Williams
Songs
"Move It On Over"
"Honky Tonkin'"
"I Saw the Light"
"Lovesick Blues"
"Mind Your Own Business"
"Lost Highway"
"My Bucket's Got a Hole in It"
"I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry"
"Long Gone Lonesome Blues"
"Why Don't You Love Me"
"Cold, Cold Heart"
"Hey, Good Lookin'"
"I Can't Help It (If I'm Still in Love with You)"
"Honky Tonk Blues"
"Half as Much"
"Jambalaya (On the Bayou)"
"You Win Again"
"I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive"
"Kaw-Liga"
"Your Cheatin' Heart"
"Take These Chains from My Heart"
"The Blues Come Around"
"Six More Miles (To the Graveyard)"
"I'm Satisfied with You"
"The Pale Horse and His Rider"
"Weary Blues from Waitin'"
"(I'm Gonna) Sing, Sing, Sing"
Family
Hank Williams Jr.
Jett Williams
Hank Williams III
Holly Williams
Related articles
Death of Hank Williams
List of tributes to Hank Williams
Drifting Cowboys
Sterling Records
MGM Records
Grand Ole Opry
The Lost Notebooks of Hank Williams
Three Hanks: Men with Broken Hearts
The Garden Spot Programs, 1950
Rufus Payne

vteHank Williams Jr.Studio albums
Your Cheatin' Heart
Connie Francis and Hank Williams Jr. Sing Great Country Favorites
Ballads of the Hills and Plains
Blues My Name
A Time to Sing
Songs My Father Left Me
Luke the Drifter Jr. – Vol. 2
Live at Cobo Hall
After You, Pride's Not Hard to Swallow
Hank Williams Jr. and Friends
Family Tradition
Whiskey Bent and Hell Bound
Habits Old and New
Rowdy
The Pressure Is On
High Notes
Strong Stuff
Man of Steel
Major Moves
Five-O
Montana Cafe
Hank Live
Born to Boogie
Wild Streak
Lone Wolf
Pure Hank
Maverick
Out of Left Field
Hog Wild
A.K.A. Wham Bam Sam
Three Hanks: Men with Broken Hearts
Stormy
The Almeria Club Recordings
I'm One of You
127 Rose Avenue
It's About Time
Rich White Honky Blues
Compilation albums
Greatest Hits
Greatest Hits Vol. 2
Fourteen Greatest Hits
Hank Williams Jr.'s Greatest Hits
Hank Williams Jr.'s Greatest Hits, Vol. 2
Greatest Hits, Vol. 3
America (The Way I See It)
The Best of Hank Williams Jr. Volume One: Roots and Branches
Tribute to My Father
20 Hits Special Collection, Vol. 1
Early Years, Vol. 1
Early Years, Vol. 2
The Bocephus Box
That's How They Do It in Dixie: The Essential Collection
Notable singles
"Long Gone Lonesome Blues"
"Nobody's Child"
"All for the Love of Sunshine"
"So Sad (To Watch Good Love Go Bad)" (with Lois Johnson)
"Rainin' in My Heart"
"Eleven Roses"
"Rainy Night in Georgia"
"I'll Think of Something"
"I Fought the Law"
"To Love Somebody"
"Family Tradition"
"Whiskey Bent and Hell Bound"
"Women I've Never Had"
"Kaw-Liga"
"Old Habits"
"Texas Women"
"Dixie on My Mind"
"All My Rowdy Friends (Have Settled Down)"
"A Country Boy Can Survive"
"Honky Tonkin'"
"The American Dream"
"Gonna Go Huntin' Tonight"
"Leave Them Boys Alone" (with Ernest Tubb and Waylon Jennings)
"Queen of My Heart"
"Man of Steel"
"Attitude Adjustment"
"All My Rowdy Friends Are Coming Over Tonight"
"Major Moves"
"I'm for Love"
"This Ain't Dallas"
"Ain't Misbehavin'"
"Country State of Mind"
"Mind Your Own Business" (with Reba McEntire, Tom Petty, Reverend Ike and Willie Nelson)
"Born to Boogie"
"Heaven Can't Be Found"
"Young Country"
"If the South Woulda Won"
"Early in the Morning and Late at Night"
"There's a Tear in My Beer" (with Hank Williams Sr.)
"Finders Are Keepers"
"Ain't Nobody's Business"
"Good Friends, Good Whiskey, Good Lovin'"
"If It Will, It Will"
"Devil in the Bottle"
"Are You Ready for the Country?" (with Eric Church)
Guest singles
"The Conversation" (with Waylon Jennings)
"That Old Wheel" (with Johnny Cash)
"Bartender Song (Sittin' at a Bar)" (with Rehab)
Family
Hank Williams (father)
Audrey Williams (mother)
Jett Williams (half-sister)
Hank Williams III (son)
Holly Williams (daughter)
Coleman Williams (grandson)
Related articles
Discography
Living Proof: The Hank Williams Jr. Story

vteHank Williams IIIStudio albums
Risin' Outlaw
Lovesick, Broke and Driftin'
Straight to Hell
Damn Right, Rebel Proud
Rebel Within
Ghost to a Ghost/Gutter Town
3 Bar Ranch Cattle Callin'
Attention Deficit Domination
Brothers of the 4×4
A Fiendish Threat
Collaboration albums
Three Hanks: Men with Broken Hearts
Assjack
Unauthorized albums
Hillbilly Joker
Long Gone Daddy
Ramblin' Man
Take as Needed for Pain
Official bootlegs
Live in Scotland
Related articles
Discography
Holly Williams

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicArtistsMusicBrainz



