American singer-songwriter (born 1947)
Jeff HannaHanna performing with Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, 2024Background informationBirth nameJeffrey R. HannaBorn (1947-07-11) July 11, 1947 (age 77)Detroit, Michigan, U.S.OriginLong Beach, California, U.S.GenresCountry, folk, rockOccupation(s)Singer, songwriterInstrument(s)Vocals, guitar, drumsYears active1966 – presentMember ofNitty Gritty Dirt BandSpouse
Matraca Berg ​(m. 1993)​Musical artist
Jeffrey R. Hanna (born July 11, 1947) is an American singer-songwriter and performance musician, best known for his association with the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. His professional music career has spanned seven decades.


Early life[edit]
Hanna was born in Detroit, Michigan.[1] In 1962, he moved with his family to Long Beach, California. As a high school student there, he and some friends started a jug band that ultimately evolved into the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band.[2]

Musical career[edit]
He was one of the founders and is the longest-serving member of the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, where he has been a singer, songwriter, lead guitarist, drummer and washboard player. Through the years, he has been a major force in keeping the band together and maintaining its blend of folk, country and rock music.[1][2]
Hanna has over 380 recording credits, primarily as a composer, but also as a vocalist, guitarist (acoustic, electric, steel, slide, twelve-string, and baritone), arranger, and producer.[3]
In addition to the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, his credits include work with artists such as Linda Ronstadt, Suzy Bogguss, The Texas Tenors, Patty Loveless, Rascal Flatts, Matraca Berg, Hannah Montana, Emmylou Harris, The Chieftains, Johnny Cash, June Carter Cash, Earl Scruggs, Michael Martin Murphey, Dickey Betts, and Steve Martin.[3]
In 2006, his composition "Bless the Broken Road", co-written with Marcus Hummon and Bobby Boyd in 1994, won a Grammy Award for Best Country Song.[4] It has been recorded by the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Marcus Hummon, and, in the Grammy year, Rascal Flatts.[5]

Personal life[edit]
Hanna's children are visual artist Christopher Hanna, and Jaime Hanna. Jamie was formerly a touring member of the Mavericks before founding the duo Hanna-McEuen. He joined Nitty Gritty Dirt Band in 2018.[6]
He has been married to Matraca Berg since December 5, 1993. The couple met while touring with Clint Black in the late 1980s. They live in Nashville, Tennessee.[5]

References[edit]


^ a b "Jeff Hanna Discography". discogs.com. Discogs. Retrieved 2016-04-12.

^ a b Stambler, Irwin; Landon, Grelun, eds. (2000-07-14). "Dirt Band, Nitty Gritty Dirt Band". Country Music: The Encyclopedia. Macmillan. pp. 135–137. ISBN 9780312264871. Retrieved 2016-04-12.

^ a b "Jeff Hanna - Credits". allmusic.com. AllMusic. Retrieved 2016-04-12.

^ "Jeff Hanna - Awards". allmusic.com. AllMusic. Retrieved 2016-04-12.

^ a b "Jeff Hanna + Matraca Berg — Country's Greatest Love Stories". theboot.com. Retrieved 2016-04-12.

^ "Hanna-McEuen Biography". artistdirect.com. ARTISTdirect. Retrieved 2016-04-12.


vteNitty Gritty Dirt Band
Jeff Hanna
Ross Holmes
Jim Photoglo
Jackson Browne
Chris Darrow
Jimmy Ibbotson
Bernie Leadon
John McEuen
Studio albums
The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band
Ricochet
Rare Junk
Uncle Charlie & His Dog Teddy
All the Good Times
Stars & Stripes Forever
Symphonion Dream
The Dirt Band
An American Dream
Make a Little Magic
Jealousy
Let's Go
Plain Dirt Fashion
Partners, Brothers and Friends
Hold On
Workin' Band
The Rest of the Dream
Not Fade Away
Acoustic
The Christmas Album
Bang, Bang, Bang
Welcome to Woody Creek
Speed of Life
Collaboration albums
Will the Circle Be Unbroken
Will the Circle Be Unbroken: Volume Two
Will the Circle Be Unbroken, Volume III
Live albums
Alive
Live Two Five
Compilation albums
Dirt, Silver and Gold
Twenty Years of Dirt
More Great Dirt
Singles
"Mr. Bojangles"
"House at Pooh Corner"
"I Saw the Light"
"Jambalaya (On the Bayou)"
"The Battle of New Orleans"
"All I Have to Do Is Dream"
"An American Dream"
"Dance Little Jean"
"Long Hard Road (The Sharecropper's Dream)"
"I Love Only You"
"High Horse"
"Modern Day Romance"
"Home Again in My Heart"
"Partners, Brothers and Friends"
"Fire in the Sky"
"Baby's Got a Hold on Me"
"Fishin' in the Dark"
"Oh What a Love"
"Workin' Man (Nowhere to Go)"
"I've Been Lookin'"
"Down That Road Tonight"
"Turn of the Century"
"And So It Goes"
"When It's Gone"
"From Small Things (Big Things One Day Come)"
"I Fought the Law"
Other songs
"King Tut"
"Joe Knows How to Live"
"Bless the Broken Road"
Related articles
Discography
Members

Authority control databases: Artists Grammy Awards



