American country singer (1932–2003)
This article is about the singer. For other uses, see Johnny Cash (disambiguation).
"John R. Cash" redirects here. For the album, see John R. Cash (album).


Johnny CashCash in 1977BornJ. R. Cash(1932-02-26)February 26, 1932Kingsland, Arkansas, U.S.DiedSeptember 12, 2003(2003-09-12) (aged 71)Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.Resting placeHendersonville Memory GardensOther names"Man in Black"John R. CashOccupationsSingersongwritermusicianactorYears active1954–2003Spouses

Vivian Liberto
​ ​(m. 1954; div. 1966)​

June Carter
​ ​(m. 1968; died 2003)​
Children5, including Rosanne, Cindy and JohnRelativesTommy Cash (brother)
Thomas Gabriel (grandson)Military careerAllegianceUnited StatesService/branchUnited States Air ForceYears of service1950–1954RankStaff sergeantBattles/warsKorean War
Musical careerGenresCountry[1]rockabilly[1]rock and roll[2]folk[2]blues[2]InstrumentsVocalsguitarDiscographyAlbumssinglessongsLabelsSunColumbiaMercuryAmericanHouse of CashLegacyFormerly ofThe Highwaymen
Musical artistWebsitejohnnycash.com
John R. Cash (born J. R. Cash; February 26, 1932 – September 12, 2003) was an American singer-songwriter. Most of Cash's music contains themes of sorrow, moral tribulation, and redemption, especially songs from the later stages of his career.[3][4] He was known for his deep, calm, bass-baritone voice,[a][5] the distinctive sound of his backing band, the Tennessee Three, that was characterized by its train-like chugging guitar rhythms, a rebelliousness[6][7] coupled with an increasingly somber and humble demeanor,[3] and his free prison concerts.[8] Cash wore a trademark all-black stage wardrobe, which earned him the nickname "Man in Black".[b]
Born to poor cotton farmers in Kingsland, Arkansas, Cash grew up on gospel music and played on a local radio station in high school. He served four years in the Air Force, much of it in West Germany. After his return to the United States, he rose to fame during the mid-1950s in the burgeoning rockabilly scene in Memphis, Tennessee. He traditionally began his concerts by introducing himself with "Hello, I'm Johnny Cash".[c] He began to follow that by "Folsom Prison Blues", one of his signature songs. His other signature songs include "I Walk the Line", "Ring of Fire", "Get Rhythm", and "Man in Black". He also recorded humorous numbers like "One Piece at a Time" and "A Boy Named Sue", a duet with his future wife June called "Jackson" (followed by many further duets after they married), and railroad songs such as "Hey, Porter", "Orange Blossom Special", and "Rock Island Line".[11] During the last stage of his career, he covered songs by contemporary rock artists; among his most notable covers were "Hurt" by Nine Inch Nails, "Rusty Cage" by Soundgarden, and "Personal Jesus" by Depeche Mode.
Cash is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, having sold more than 90 million records worldwide.[12][13] His genre-spanning music embraced country, rock and roll, rockabilly, blues, folk, and gospel sounds. This crossover appeal earned him the rare honor of being inducted into the Country Music, Rock and Roll, and Gospel Music Halls of Fame.


Early life[edit]
Cash's boyhood home in Dyess, Arkansas, where he lived from the age of three in 1935 until he finished high school in 1950. The property, pictured here in 2021, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The home was renovated in 2011 to look as it did when Cash lived there as a child.
Cash was born J. R. Cash in Kingsland, Arkansas, on February 26, 1932,[14][15] to Carrie Cloveree (née Rivers) and Ray Cash. He had three older siblings, Roy, Margaret Louise, and Jack, and three younger siblings, Reba, Joanne, and Tommy (who also became a successful country artist).[16][17] He was primarily of English and Scottish descent.[18][19][20]
His paternal grandmother claimed Cherokee ancestry. But a DNA test of Cash's daughter Rosanne in 2021 on Finding Your Roots, hosted by historian Henry Louis Gates Jr, found she has no known Native American markers.[21] The researchers did find DNA for African ancestry on both sides of her family. They were able to document her maternal ancestry by historic records, dating to her great-great-great-great-grandmother Sarah Shields, a mixed-race woman born into slavery and freed by her white father in 1848, along with her eight siblings. Her paternal DNA suggested African ancestry in a similar time frame among Johnny Cash's family.[21]
After meeting with the then-laird of Falkland in Fife, Major Michael Crichton-Stuart, Cash became interested in his Scots ancestry. He traced his Scottish surname to 11th-century Fife. [22][23][24] Cash Loch and other locations in Fife bear the surname of his father.[22] He is a distant cousin of British Conservative politician Sir William Cash.[25] He also had English ancestry. 
Because his mother wanted to name him John and his father preferred to name him Ray when he was born, they compromised on the initials "J. R."[26] But when Cash enlisted in the Air Force after high school, he was not permitted to use initials as a first name. He adopted the name "John R. Cash". In 1955, when signing with Sun Records, he started using the name "Johnny Cash".[7]
In March 1935, when Cash was three years old, the family settled in Dyess, Arkansas, a New Deal colony established during the Great Depression under the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. It was intended to give poor families the opportunity to work land that they might later own.[27]
From the age of five, Cash worked in cotton fields with his family, singing with them as they worked. Dyess and the Cash farm suffered a flood during his childhood. Later he wrote the song "Five Feet High and Rising".[28] His family's economic and personal struggles during the Great Depression gave him a lifelong sympathy for the poor and working class, and inspired many of his songs.
In 1944,[29] Cash's older brother Jack, with whom he was close, was cut almost in two by an unguarded table saw at work. He died of his wounds a week later.[30] According to Cash's autobiography, he, his mother, and Jack all had a sense of foreboding about that day; his mother urged Jack to skip work and go fishing with Cash, but Jack insisted on working as the family needed the money. Cash often spoke of the guilt he felt over the incident. He would say that he looked forward to "meeting [his] brother in Heaven".[7]
Cash's early memories were dominated by gospel music and radio. Taught guitar by his mother and a childhood friend, Cash began playing and writing songs at the age of 12. When young, Cash had a high-tenor voice, before becoming a bass-baritone after his voice changed.[31]
In high school, he sang on a local Arkansas radio station. Decades later, he released an album of traditional gospel songs called My Mother's Hymn Book. He was also strongly influenced by traditional Irish music, which he heard performed weekly by Dennis Day on the Jack Benny radio program.[32]
Cash enlisted in the Air Force on July 7, 1950, shortly after the start of the Korean War.[33] After basic training at Lackland Air Force Base and technical training at Brooks Air Force Base, both in San Antonio, Texas, Cash was assigned to the 12th Radio Squadron Mobile of the U.S. Air Force Security Service at Landsberg, West Germany. While in San Antonio, he met Vivian Liberto, an attractive girl of Sicilian, Irish and German ancestry. They dated briefly before his departure. During the years he served overseas, they exchanged thousands of letters.
He worked in West Germany as a Morse code operator, intercepting Soviet Army transmissions. While working this job, Cash was said to be the first American to be given the news of Joseph Stalin's death (supplied via Morse code). His daughter, Rosanne, said that Cash had recounted the story many times over the years.[34][35][36] While at Landsberg, he created his first band, "The Landsberg Barbarians".[37] On July 3, 1954, he was honorably discharged as a staff sergeant, and he returned to Texas.[38] During his military service, he acquired a distinctive scar on the right side of his jaw as a result of surgery to remove a cyst.[39][40]
Soon after his return, Cash married Vivian Liberto in San Antonio. She had grown up Catholic and was married in the church by her paternal uncle, Father Franco Liberto.[citation needed]

Career[edit]
Early career[edit]
Publicity photo for Sun Records, 1955
In 1954, Cash and his first wife Vivian moved to Memphis, Tennessee. He sold appliances while studying to be a radio announcer. At night, he played with guitarist Luther Perkins and bassist Marshall Grant. Perkins and Grant were known as the Tennessee Two. Cash worked up the courage to visit the Sun Records studio, hoping to get a recording contract.[41] He auditioned for Sam Phillips by singing mostly gospel songs, only to learn from the producer that he no longer recorded gospel music. Phillips was rumored to have told Cash to "go home and sin, then come back with a song I can sell". In a 2002 interview, Cash denied that Phillips made any such comment.[42] Cash eventually won over the producer with new songs delivered in his early rockabilly style. In 1955, Cash made his first recordings at Sun, "Hey Porter" and "Cry! Cry! Cry!", which were released in late June and met with success on the country hit parade.
On December 4, 1956, Elvis Presley dropped in on Phillips while Carl Perkins was in the studio cutting new tracks, with Jerry Lee Lewis backing him on piano. Cash was also in the studio, and the four started an impromptu jam session. Phillips left the tapes running and the recordings, almost half of which were gospel songs, survived. They have since been released under the title Million Dollar Quartet. In Cash: the Autobiography, Cash wrote that he was the farthest from the microphone and sang in a higher pitch to blend in with Elvis.
Cash's next record, "Folsom Prison Blues", made the country top five. His "I Walk the Line" became number one on the country charts and entered the pop charts top 20. "Home of the Blues" followed, recorded in July 1957. That same year, Cash became the first Sun artist to release a long-playing album. Although he was Sun's most consistently selling and prolific artist at that time, Cash felt constrained by his contract with the small label. Phillips did not want Cash to record gospel and was paying him a 3% royalty rather than the standard rate of 5%. Presley had already left Sun, and Cash felt that Phillips was focusing most of his attention and promotion on Lewis.
In 1958, Cash left Phillips to sign a lucrative offer with Columbia Records. His single "Don't Take Your Guns to Town" became one of his biggest hits. He recorded a collection of gospel songs for his second album for Columbia. However, Cash left behind such a backlog of recordings with Sun that Phillips continued to release new singles and albums featuring previously unreleased material until as late as 1964. Cash was in the unusual position of having new releases out on two labels concurrently. Sun's 1960 release, a cover of "Oh Lonesome Me", made it to number 13 on the C&W charts.[d]

Cash on the cover of Cash Box magazine, September 7, 1957
Early in his career, Cash was given the teasing nickname "the Undertaker" by fellow artists because of his habit of wearing black clothes. He said he chose them because they were easier to keep looking clean on long tours.[43]
In the early 1960s, Cash toured with the Carter Family, which by this time regularly included Mother Maybelle's daughters, Anita, June, and Helen. June later recalled admiring him from afar during these tours. In the 1960s, he appeared on Pete Seeger's short-lived television series Rainbow Quest.[44] He also acted in, and wrote and sang the opening theme for, a 1961 film entitled Five Minutes to Live. It was later re-released as Door-to-door Maniac.
Cash's career was handled by Saul Holiff, a London, Ontario, promoter. Their relationship was the subject of Saul's son's biopic My Father and the Man in Black.[45]

Outlaw image[edit]
As his career was taking off in the late 1950s, Cash started drinking heavily and became addicted to amphetamines and barbiturates. For a brief time, he shared an apartment in Nashville with Waylon Jennings, who was deeply addicted to amphetamines. Cash would use the stimulants to stay awake during tours. Friends joked about his "nervousness" and erratic behavior, many ignoring the warning signs of his worsening drug addiction.
Although he was in many ways spiraling out of control, Cash could still deliver hits due to his frenetic creativity. His rendition of "Ring of Fire" was a crossover hit, reaching number one on the country charts and entering the top 20 on the pop charts. It was originally performed by June Carter's sister, but the signature mariachi-style horn arrangement was provided by Cash.[46] He said that it had come to him in a dream. 
His first wife Vivian (Liberto) Cash claimed a different version of the origins of "Ring of Fire". In her book, I Walked the Line: My Life with Johnny (2007), Liberto says that Cash gave Carter half the songwriting credit for monetary reasons.[47]
In June 1965, Cash's camper caught fire during a fishing trip with his nephew Damon Fielder in Los Padres National Forest in California. It set off a forest fire that burned several hundred acres and nearly caused his death.[48][49] Cash claimed that the fire was caused by sparks from a defective exhaust system on his camper, but Fielder thought that Cash started a fire to stay warm and, under the influence of drugs, failed to notice the fire getting out of control.[50] When the judge asked Cash why he did it, Cash said, "I didn't do it, my truck did, and it's dead, so you can't question it."[51]
The fire destroyed 508 acres (206 ha), burned the foliage off three mountains and drove off 49 of the refuge's 53 endangered California condors.[52] Cash was unrepentant and said, "I don't care about your damn yellow buzzards."[53] The federal government sued him and was awarded $125,172. Cash eventually settled the case and paid $82,001.[54]

The Tennessee Three with Cash in 1963
Although Cash cultivated a romantic outlaw image, he never served a prison sentence. Despite landing in jail seven times for misdemeanors, he was held only one night each time. On May 11, 1965, he was arrested in Starkville, Mississippi, for trespassing late at night onto private property to pick flowers. (He used this incident as the basis for the song "Starkville City Jail". He discussed this on his live At San Quentin album.)[55]
While on tour later that year, he was arrested October 4 in El Paso, Texas, by a narcotics squad. The officers suspected he was smuggling heroin from Mexico, but found instead 688 Dexedrine capsules (amphetamines) and 475 Equanil (sedatives or tranquilizers) tablets hidden inside his guitar case. Because the pills were prescription drugs rather than illegal narcotics, Cash received a suspended sentence. He posted a $1,500 bond and was released until his arraignment.[56]
In this period of the mid-1960s, Cash released a number of concept albums. His Bitter Tears (1964) was devoted to spoken word and songs addressing the plight of Native Americans and mistreatment by the government. While initially reaching charts, this album met with resistance from some fans and radio stations, which rejected its controversial take on social issues. 
In 2011, a book was published about it, leading to a re-recording of the songs by contemporary artists and the making of a documentary film about Cash's efforts with the album. This film was aired on PBS in February and November 2016. His Sings the Ballads of the True West (1965) was an experimental double record, mixing authentic frontier songs with Cash's spoken narration.
Reaching a low with his severe drug addiction and destructive behavior, Cash and his first wife divorced after having separated in 1962. Some venues cancelled his performances, but he continued to find success. In 1967, Cash's duet with June Carter, "Jackson", won a Grammy Award.[57]
Cash was last arrested in 1967 in Walker County, Georgia, after police found he was carrying a bag of prescription pills when in a car accident. Cash attempted to bribe a local deputy, who turned the money down. He was jailed for the night in LaFayette, Georgia. Sheriff Ralph Jones released him after giving him a long talk, warning him about the danger of his behavior and wasted potential. Cash credited that experience with helping him turn around and save his life. He later returned to LaFayette to play a benefit concert; it attracted 12,000 people (the city population was less than 9,000 at the time) and raised $75,000 for the high school.[58]
Reflecting on his past in a 1997 interview, Cash noted: "I was taking the pills for awhile, and then the pills started taking me."[59] June, Maybelle, and Ezra Carter moved into Cash's mansion for a month to help him get off drugs. Cash proposed onstage to June on February 22, 1968, at a concert at the London Gardens in London, Ontario, Canada. The couple married a week later (on March 1) in Franklin, Kentucky. She had agreed to marry Cash after he had "cleaned up."[60]
Cash's journey included rediscovery of his Christian faith. He took an "altar call" in Evangel Temple, a small church in the Nashville area, pastored by Reverend Jimmie Rodgers Snow, son of country music legend Hank Snow. According to Marshall Grant, though, Cash did not completely stop using amphetamines in 1968; and did not fully end drug use for another two years. He was drug-free for a period of seven years. In his memoir about time with Cash, Grant said that the birth of Cash's son, John Carter Cash, inspired the singer to end his dependence.[61]
Cash began using amphetamines again in 1977. By 1983, he was deeply addicted again. He entered rehab at the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage for treatment. He stayed off drugs for several years, but relapsed. 
In 1989, he entered Nashville's Cumberland Heights Alcohol and Drug Treatment Center. In 1992, he started care at the Loma Linda Behavioral Medicine Center in Loma Linda, California, for his final rehabilitation treatment. (Several months later, his son followed him into this facility for treatment.)[62][63]

Folsom and other prison concerts[edit]
In the late 1950s Cash began performing concerts at prisons. He played his first notable prison concert on January 1, 1958, at San Quentin State Prison in California.[64] These performances were recorded live, and released on highly successful albums: Johnny Cash at Folsom Prison (1968) and Johnny Cash at San Quentin (1969). Both live albums reached number one on Billboard country album music and the latter crossed over to reach the top of the Billboard pop album chart. In 1969, Cash became an international hit when he eclipsed even The Beatles by selling 6.5 million albums.[65] In comparison, the prison concerts were much more successful than his later live albums such as Strawberry Cake recorded in London and Live at Madison Square Garden, which peaked at numbers 33 and 39 on the album charts, respectively.
The Folsom Prison record was introduced by a rendition of his "Folsom Prison Blues", while the San Quentin record included the crossover hit single "A Boy Named Sue", a Shel Silverstein novelty song that reached number one on the country charts and number two on the U.S. top-10 pop charts.
In 1972 Cash performed at the Österåker Prison in Sweden. The live album På Österåker (At Österåker) was released in 1973. "San Quentin" was recorded with Cash replacing "San Quentin" with "Österåker". In 1976, a concert at Tennessee State Prison was videotaped for TV broadcast. It was posthumously released after Cash's death as a CD entitled A Concert Behind Prison Walls.

Activism for Native Americans[edit]
Cash used his stardom and economic status to bring awareness to the issues surrounding the Native American people.[66] Cash sang songs about indigenous humanity in an effort to confront the U.S. government. Many non-Native Americans did not address those topics in their music.[67] In 1965, Cash and June Carter appeared on Pete Seeger's TV show, Rainbow Quest, on which Cash explained his start as an activist for Native Americans:

In '57, I wrote a song called "Old Apache Squaw" and then forgot the so-called Indian protest for a while, but nobody else seemed to speak up with any volume of voice.[68]
Columbia Music, the label for which Cash was recording then, was opposed to putting the song on his next album, considering it "too radical for the public".[69] Cash singing songs of Indian tragedy and settler violence went radically against the mainstream of country music in the 1950s, which was dominated by the image of the righteous cowboy who makes the native's soil his own.[70]
In 1964, coming off the chart success of his previous album I Walk the Line, he recorded the aforementioned album Bitter Tears: Ballads of the American Indian.
The album featured stories of a multitude of Indigenous peoples, emphasizing their violent oppression by white settlers: the Pima people ("The Ballad of Ira Hayes"), Navajo ("Navajo"), Apache ("Apache Tears"), Lakota ("Big Foot"), Seneca ("As Long as the Grass Shall Grow"), and Cherokee ("The Talking Leaves"). Cash wrote three of the songs himself and one with the help of Johnny Horton. 
The majority of these protest songs were written by folk artist Peter La Farge (son of Oliver La Farge, an activist and Pulitzer prizewinner.) Cash met the younger La Farge in New York in the 1960s and admired him for his activism.[71] The album's single, "The Ballad of Ira Hayes" was generally not played by commercial radio. (Ira Hayes was a Native American who was one of the six soldiers featured in a photo raising the U.S. flag at Iwo Jima during World War II.)
The record label denied it promotion due to what it considered a provocative and "unappealing" nature. Cash faced resistance and was urged by an editor of a country music magazine to leave the Country Music Association, who said: "You and your crowd are just too intelligent to associate with plain country folks, country artists, and country DJs."[72]
In reaction, on August 22, 1964, Cash posted a letter as an advertisement in Billboard, calling the record industry cowardly: "D.J.s – station managers – owners [...] where are your guts? I had to fight back when I realized that so many stations are afraid of Ira Hayes. Just one question: WHY??? Ira Hayes is strong medicine [...] So is Rochester, Harlem, Birmingham and Vietnam."[73][74] Cash kept promoting the song and persuaded disc jockeys he knew to play it. The song eventually reached number three on the country charts, and the album rose to number two on the album charts.[72]

Cash in 1969
Later, on The Johnny Cash Show, he continued telling stories of Native-American plight, both in song and through short films, such as the history of the Trail of Tears.[75]
In 1966, in response to his activism, Cash was adopted by the Seneca Nation's Turtle Clan.[76] He performed benefits in 1968 at the Rosebud Reservation, close to the historical landmark of the massacre at Wounded Knee, to raise money to help build a school. He also played at the D-Q University in the 1980s.[77]
In 1970, Cash recorded a reading of John G. Burnett's 1890, 80th-birthday essay[78] on Cherokee removal for the Historical Landmarks Association (Nashville).[79]

The Johnny Cash Show[edit]
From June 1969 to March 1971, Cash starred in his own television show, The Johnny Cash Show, on the ABC network.[80] Produced by Screen Gems, the show was performed at the Ryman Auditorium in Nashville. The Statler Brothers opened for him in every episode; the Carter Family and rockabilly legend Carl Perkins were also part of the regular show entourage. Cash also enjoyed booking mainstream performers as guests; including Linda Ronstadt in her first TV appearance, Neil Young, Louis Armstrong, Neil Diamond, Kenny Rogers and the First Edition (who appeared four times), James Taylor, Ray Charles, Roger Miller, Roy Orbison, Derek and the Dominos, Joni Mitchell, and Bob Dylan.[80]
From September 15–18, 1969, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, he performed a series of four concerts at the New Mexico State Fair to promote the first season of The Johnny Cash Show.[81][82] These live shows were produced with help from ABC and local concert producer Bennie Sanchez; during these sets, Johnny Cash and Al Hurricane performed together.[83] Also during The Johnny Cash Show era, he contributed the title song and other songs to the film Little Fauss and Big Halsy, which starred Robert Redford, Michael J. Pollard, and Lauren Hutton.[84] The title song, "The Ballad of Little Fauss and Big Halsy", written by Carl Perkins, was nominated for a Golden Globe award in 1971.[85]
Cash had first met with Dylan in the mid-1960s and became neighbors in the late 1960s in Woodstock, New York. Cash was enthusiastic about reintroducing the reclusive Dylan to his audience. Cash sang a duet with Dylan, "Girl from the North Country", on Dylan's country album Nashville Skyline and also wrote the album's Grammy-winning liner notes.
Another artist who received a major career boost from The Johnny Cash Show was Kris Kristofferson, who was beginning to make a name for himself as a singer-songwriter. During a live performance of Kristofferson's "Sunday Mornin' Comin' Down", Cash refused to change the lyrics to suit network executives, singing the song with its references to marijuana intact:


On a Sunday morning sidewalk
I'm wishin', Lord, that I was stoned.[86]


The closing program of The Johnny Cash Show was a gospel music special. Guests included the Blackwood Brothers, Mahalia Jackson, Stuart Hamblen, and Billy Graham.[87]

The "Man in Black"[edit]
Cash advocated prison reform at his July 1972 meeting with President Richard Nixon
By the early 1970s, Cash had established his public image as the "Man in Black". He regularly performed in entirely black suits with a long, black, knee-length coat. This outfit stood in contrast to the rhinestone suits and cowboy boots worn by most of the major country acts of his day.

Cash performing in Bremen, West Germany, in September 1972
Cash said he wore all black on behalf of the poor and hungry, the "prisoner who has long paid for his crime", and those who have been betrayed by age or drugs.[88] He added, "With the Vietnam War as painful in my mind as it was in most other Americans, I wore it 'in mourning' for the lives that could have been' ... Apart from the Vietnam War being over, I don't see much reason to change my position ... The old are still neglected, the poor are still poor, the young are still dying before their time, and we're not making many moves to make things right. There's still plenty of darkness to carry off."[88]

Cash in the "one piece at a time" Cadillac
Initially, he and his band had worn black shirts because that was the only matching color they had among their various outfits. He wore other colors on stage early in his career, but he claimed to like wearing black both on and off stage. He stated that political reasons aside, he simply liked black as his on-stage color.[9] The outdated US Navy's winter blue uniform used to be referred to by sailors as "Johnny Cashes", as the uniform's shirt, tie, and trousers are solid black.[89]
In the mid-1970s, Cash's popularity and number of hit songs began to decline. He made commercials for Amoco and STP, an unpopular enterprise at the time of the 1970s energy crisis. In 1976, he made commercials for Lionel Trains, for which he also wrote the music.[90] However, his first autobiography, Man in Black, was published in 1975 and sold 1.3 million copies. A second, Cash: The Autobiography, appeared in 1997.
Cash's friendship with Billy Graham[91] led to his production of a film about the life of Jesus, Gospel Road: A Story of Jesus, which Cash co-wrote and narrated. It was released in 1973. Cash viewed the film as a statement of his personal faith rather than a means of proselytizing.[92]
Cash and June Carter Cash appeared several times on the Billy Graham Crusade TV specials, and Cash continued to include gospel and religious songs on many of his albums, though Columbia declined to release A Believer Sings the Truth, a gospel double-LP Cash recorded in 1979 and which ended up being released on an independent label even with Cash still under contract to Columbia. On November 22, 1974, CBS ran his one-hour TV special entitled Riding The Rails, a musical history of trains.
He continued to appear on television, hosting Christmas specials on CBS in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Later television appearances included a starring role in an episode of Columbo, entitled "Swan Song". June and he appeared in an episode of Little House on the Prairie, entitled "The Collection". He gave a performance as abolitionist John Brown in the 1985 American Civil War television miniseries North and South. In the 1990s, Johnny and June appeared in Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman in recurring roles.
He was friendly with every US president, starting with Richard Nixon. He was closest to Jimmy Carter, with whom he became close friends and who was a distant cousin of his wife, June.[93]
When invited to perform at the White House for the first time in 1970,[94] Richard Nixon's office requested that he play "Okie from Muskogee" (a satirical Merle Haggard song about people who despised hippies, young drug users and Vietnam war protesters), "Welfare Cadillac" (a Guy Drake song which chastises the integrity of welfare recipients), and "A Boy Named Sue". Cash declined to play the first two and instead selected other songs, including "The Ballad of Ira Hayes" and his own compositions, "What Is Truth" and "Man in Black". Cash wrote that the reasons for denying Nixon's song choices were not knowing them and having fairly short notice to rehearse them, rather than any political reason.[95] However, Cash added, even if Nixon's office had given Cash enough time to learn and rehearse the songs, their choice of pieces that conveyed "antihippie and antiblack" sentiments might have backfired.[96] In his remarks when introducing Cash, Nixon joked that one thing he had learned about him was one did not tell him what to sing.[97]
Johnny Cash was the grand marshal of the United States Bicentennial parade.[98] He wore a shirt from Nudie Cohn which sold for $25,000 in auction in 2010.[99] After the parade he gave a concert at the Washington Monument.[100]

Highwaymen and departure from Columbia Records[edit]
The Highwaymen members Kris Kristofferson, Johnny Cash, Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson
In 1980, Cash became the Country Music Hall of Fame's youngest living inductee at age 48, but during the 1980s, his records failed to make a major impact on the country charts, although he continued to tour successfully. In the mid-1980s, he recorded and toured with Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson, and Kris Kristofferson as the Highwaymen, making three hit albums, which were released beginning with the originally titled Highwayman in 1985, followed by Highwaymen 2 in 1990, and concluding with Highwaymen – The Road Goes On Forever in 1995.
During that period, Cash appeared in a number of television films. In 1981, he starred in The Pride of Jesse Hallam, winning fine reviews for a film that called attention to adult illiteracy. In 1983, he appeared as a heroic sheriff in Murder in Coweta County, based on a real-life Georgia murder case, which co-starred Andy Griffith as his nemesis.
Cash relapsed into addiction after being administered painkillers for a serious abdominal injury in 1983 caused by an incident in which he was kicked and wounded by an ostrich on his farm.[101]
At a hospital visit in 1988, this time to watch over Waylon Jennings (who was recovering from a heart attack), Jennings suggested that Cash have himself checked into the hospital for his own heart condition. Doctors recommended preventive heart surgery, and Cash underwent double bypass surgery in the same hospital. Both recovered, although Cash refused to use any prescription painkillers, fearing a relapse into dependency. Cash later claimed that during his operation, he had what is called a "near-death experience".

In 1984, Cash released a self-parody recording titled "The Chicken in Black" about Cash's brain being transplanted into a chicken and Cash receiving a bank robber's brain in return. Biographer Robert Hilburn, in his 2013 book Johnny Cash: The Life, disputes the claim made that Cash chose to record an intentionally poor song in protest of Columbia's treatment of him. On the contrary, Hilburn writes, it was Columbia that presented Cash with the song, which Cash – who had previously scored major chart hits with comedic material such as "A Boy Named Sue" and "One Piece at a Time" – accepted enthusiastically, performing the song live on stage and filming a comedic music video in which he dresses up in a superhero-like bank-robber costume. According to Hilburn, Cash's enthusiasm for the song waned after Waylon Jennings told Cash he looked "like a buffoon" in the music video (which was showcased during Cash's 1984 Christmas TV special), and Cash subsequently demanded that Columbia withdraw the music video from broadcast and recall the single from stores—interrupting its bona fide chart success—and termed the venture "a fiasco".[102]
Between 1981 and 1984, he recorded several sessions with famed countrypolitan producer Billy Sherrill (who also produced "The Chicken in Black"), which were shelved; they would be released by Columbia's sister label, Legacy Recordings, in 2014 as Out Among the Stars.[103] Around this time, Cash also recorded an album of gospel recordings that ended up being released by another label around the time of his departure from Columbia (this due to Columbia closing down its Priority Records division that was to have released the recordings).
After more unsuccessful recordings were released between 1984 and 1985, Cash left Columbia.
In 1986, Cash returned to Sun Studios in Memphis to team up with Roy Orbison, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Carl Perkins to create the album Class of '55; according to Hilburn, Columbia still had Cash under contract at the time, so special arrangements had to be made to allow him to participate.[104] Also in 1986, Cash published his only novel, Man in White, a book about Saul and his conversion to become the Apostle Paul. He recorded Johnny Cash Reads The Complete New Testament in 1990.

American Recordings[edit]
Johnny Cash sings with a Navy lieutenant during a military event c. January 1987
After Columbia Records dropped Cash from his recording contract, he had a short and unsuccessful stint with Mercury Records from 1987 to 1991. During this time, he recorded an album of new versions of some of his best-known Sun and Columbia hits, as well as Water from the Wells of Home, a duets album that paired him with, among others, his children Rosanne Cash and John Carter Cash, as well as Paul McCartney. A one-off Christmas album recorded for Delta Records followed his Mercury contract.
Though Cash would never have another chart hit from 1991 until his death, his career was rejuvenated in the 1990s, leading to popularity with an audience which was not traditionally considered interested in country music. In 1988, British post-punk musicians Marc Riley (formerly of the Fall) and Jon Langford (the Mekons) put together 'Til Things Are Brighter, a tribute album featuring mostly British-based indie-rock acts' interpretations of Cash's songs. Cash was enthusiastic about the project, telling Langford that it was a "morale booster"; Rosanne Cash later said "he felt a real connection with those musicians and very validated ... It was very good for him: he was in his element. He absolutely understood what they were tapping into, and loved it". The album attracted press attention on both sides of the Atlantic.[105] In 1991, he sang a version of "Man in Black" for the Christian punk band One Bad Pig's album I Scream Sunday. In 1993, he sang "The Wanderer", the closing track of U2's album Zooropa. According to Rolling Stone writer Adam Gold, "The Wanderer" – written for Cash by Bono, "defies both the U2 and Cash canons, combining rhythmic and textural elements of Nineties synth-pop with a Countrypolitan lament fit for the closing credits of a Seventies western."[106]
No longer sought-after by major labels, he was offered a contract with producer Rick Rubin's American Recordings label, which had recently been rebranded from Def American, under which name it was better known for rap and hard rock. Under Rubin's supervision, he recorded American Recordings (1994) in his living room, accompanied only by his Martin Dreadnought guitar – one of many Cash played throughout his career.[107] The album featured covers of contemporary artists selected by Rubin. The album had a great deal of critical and commercial success, winning a Grammy for Best Contemporary Folk Album. Cash wrote that his reception at the 1994 Glastonbury Festival was one of the highlights of his career. This was the beginning of a decade of music industry accolades and commercial success. He teamed up with Brooks & Dunn to contribute "Folsom Prison Blues" to the AIDS benefit album Red Hot + Country produced by the Red Hot Organization. On the same album, he performed Bob Dylan's  "Forever Young".[citation needed]
Cash and his wife appeared on a number of episodes of the television series Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman. He also lent his voice for a cameo role in The Simpsons episode "El Viaje Misterioso de Nuestro Jomer (The Mysterious Voyage of Homer)", as the "Space Coyote" that guides Homer Simpson on a spiritual quest.
Cash was joined by guitarist Kim Thayil of Soundgarden, bassist Krist Novoselic of Nirvana, and drummer Sean Kinney of Alice in Chains for a cover of Willie Nelson's "Time of the Preacher", featured on the tribute album Twisted Willie, released in January 1996.[108]
In 1996, Cash collaborated with Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers on Unchained (also known as American Recordings II), which won the Best Country Album Grammy in 1998. The album was produced by Rick Rubin with Sylvia Massy engineering and mixing. A majority of Unchained was recorded at Sound City Studios and featured guest appearances by Lindsey Buckingham, Mick Fleetwood, and Marty Stuart. Believing he did not explain enough of himself in his 1975 autobiography Man in Black, he wrote Cash: The Autobiography in 1997.

Later years and death[edit]
Cash with President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush in 2002
In 1997, during a trip to New York City, Cash was diagnosed with the neurodegenerative disease Shy–Drager syndrome, a form of multiple system atrophy.[109] According to biographer Robert Hilburn, the disease was originally misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease, and Cash even announced to his audience that he had Parkinson's after nearly collapsing on stage in Flint, Michigan, on October 25, 1997. Soon afterwards, his diagnosis was changed to Shy–Drager, and Cash was told he had about 18 months to live.[110] The diagnosis was later again altered to autonomic neuropathy associated with diabetes. The illness forced Cash to curtail his touring. He was hospitalized in 1998 with severe pneumonia, which damaged his lungs.
During the last stage of his career, Cash released the albums American III: Solitary Man (2000) and American IV: The Man Comes Around (2002). American IV included cover songs by several late 20th-century rock artists, notably "Hurt" by Nine Inch Nails and "Personal Jesus" by Depeche Mode.[111] Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails commented that he was initially skeptical about Cash's plan to cover "Hurt", but was later impressed and moved by the rendition.[112] The video for "Hurt" received critical and popular acclaim, including a Grammy Award.[113][114]
June Carter Cash died on May 15, 2003, aged 73.[115] June had told Cash to keep working, so he continued to record, completing 60 songs in the last four months of his life. He even performed surprise shows at the Carter Family Fold outside Bristol, Virginia. At the July 5, 2003, concert (his last public performance), before singing "Ring of Fire", Cash read a statement that he had written shortly before taking the stage:

The spirit of June Carter overshadows me tonight with the love she had for me and the love I have for her. We connect somewhere between here and Heaven. She came down for a short visit, I guess, from Heaven to visit with me tonight to give me courage and inspiration like she always has. She's never been one for me except courage and inspiration. I thank God for June Carter. I love her with all my heart.
Cash continued to record until shortly before his death. "When June died, it tore him up", Rick Rubin recalled. "He said to me, 'You have to keep me working because I will die if I don't have something to do.' He was in a wheelchair by then and we set him up at his home in Virginia… I couldn't listen to those recordings for two years after he died and it was heartbreaking when he died."[116] Cash's final recordings were made on August 21, 2003, and consisted of "Like the 309", which appeared on American V: A Hundred Highways in 2006, and the final song he completed, "Engine 143", recorded for his son John Carter Cash's planned Carter Family tribute album.[117]

Cash's grave located at Hendersonville Memory Gardens in Hendersonville, Tennessee
While being hospitalized at Baptist Hospital in Nashville, Cash died of complications from diabetes at around 2:00 am Central Time on September 12, 2003, aged 71—less than four months after his wife. Public funeral services were held at the First Baptist Church in Hendersonville, Tennessee. [118] He was buried next to her at Hendersonville Memory Gardens near his home in Hendersonville, Tennessee.

Personal life[edit]
Cash and his second wife, June Carter, in 1969
On July 18, 1951, while in Air Force basic training, Cash met 17-year-old Italian-American Vivian Liberto at a roller skating rink in San Antonio, Texas.[119] They dated for three weeks until Cash was deployed to West Germany for a three-year tour. During that time, the couple exchanged hundreds of love letters.[120] On August 7, 1954, one month after his discharge, they were married at St. Ann's Roman Catholic Church in San Antonio. They had four daughters: Rosanne, Kathy, Cindy, and Tara. In 1961, Cash moved his family to a hilltop home overlooking Casitas Springs, California. He had previously moved his parents to the area to run a small trailer park called the Johnny Cash Trailer Park. His drinking led to several run-ins with local law enforcement. Liberto later said that she had filed for divorce in 1966 because of Cash's severe drug and alcohol abuse, as well as his constant touring, his repeated acts of adultery with other women, and his close relationship with singer June Carter. Their four daughters were then raised by their mother.
Cash met June of the famed Carter Family while on tour, and the two became infatuated with each other. In 1968, thirteen years after they first met backstage at the Grand Ole Opry, Cash proposed to June, during a live performance in London, Ontario.[121] The couple married on March 1, 1968, in Franklin, Kentucky. They had one child together, John Carter Cash, born March 3, 1970. He was the only son for both Johnny and June. In addition to having his four daughters and John Carter, Cash also became stepfather to Carlene and Rosie, June's daughters from her first two marriages, to, respectively, honky-tonk singer Carl Smith, and former police officer, football player, and race-car driver Edwin "Rip" Nix. Cash and Carter continued to work, raise their child, create music, and tour together for 35 years until June's death in May 2003. Throughout their marriage, June attempted to keep Cash off amphetamines, often taking his drugs and flushing them down the toilet. June remained with him even throughout his multiple admissions for rehabilitation treatment and decades of drug addiction. After June's death in May 2003, Cash believed that his only reason for living was his music; he died only four months later.[122]


Religious beliefs[edit]
Cash was raised by his parents in the Christian faith. In 1944, he became a Christian at the Central Baptist Church in Dyess, Arkansas, affiliated to the Southern Baptist Convention, and began singing publicly there. [123] He was baptized shortly after in the Tyronza River.[124]
A troubled but devout Christian,[125][126] Cash has been characterized as a "lens through which to view American contradictions and challenges."[e][128][129] On May 9, 1971, he answered the altar call at Evangel Temple in Nashville, an Assemblies of God congregation pastored by Jimmie R. Snow, with outreach to people in the music world.[130]
Cash penned a Christian novel, Man in White, in 1986, and in the introduction writes about a reporter, who, interested in Cash's religious beliefs, questioned whether the book is written from a Baptist, Catholic, or Jewish perspective. Cash replied, "I'm a Christian. Don't put me in another box."[131][132][133][134]
In the mid-1970s, Cash and his wife, June, completed a course of study in the Bible through Christian International Bible College, culminating in a pilgrimage to Israel in November 1978.[63]: 66  Around that time, he was ordained as a minister, and officiated at his daughter's wedding.[135]  He often performed at Billy Graham Crusades. [136] At a Tallahassee Crusade in 1986, June and Johnny sang his song "One of These Days I'm Gonna Sit Down and Talk to Paul".[137]  At a performance in Arkansas in 1989, Johnny Cash spoke to attendees of his commitment to the salvation of drug dealers and alcoholics. He then sang, "Family Bible".[138]
He recorded several gospel albums and made a spoken-word recording of the entire New King James Version of the New Testament.[139][140]  Cash declared he was "the biggest sinner of them all", and viewed himself overall as a complicated and contradictory man.[141][f]  Accordingly,[g]  Cash is said to have "contained multitudes", and has been deemed "the philosopher-prince of American country music."[145][146]
Cash is credited with having converted actor and singer John Schneider to Christianity.[147]
Towards the end of his life, he and his wife attended the First Baptist Church in Hendersonville, Tennessee. [148]

Legacy[edit]
The clothes and guitar of Johnny Cash on exhibit in the Artist Gallery of the Musical Instrument Museum of Phoenix
Cash nurtured and defended artists (such as Bob Dylan[46]) on the fringes of what was acceptable in country music even while serving as the country music establishment's most visible symbol. At an all-star concert which aired in 1999 on TNT, a diverse group of artists paid him tribute, including Dylan, Chris Isaak, Wyclef Jean, Norah Jones, Kris Kristofferson, Willie Nelson, Dom DeLuise, and U2. Cash himself appeared at the end and performed for the first time in more than a year. Two tribute albums were released shortly before his death; Kindred Spirits contains works from established artists, while Dressed in Black contains works from many lesser-known musicians.
In total, he wrote over 1,000 songs and released dozens of albums. A box set titled Unearthed was issued posthumously. It included four CDs of unreleased material recorded with Rubin, as well as a Best of Cash on American retrospective CD. The set also includes a 104-page book that discusses each track and features one of Cash's final interviews.[149]
In 1999, Cash received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Cash number 31 on their "100 Greatest Artists of All Time" list[150][151] and No. 21 on their "100 Greatest Singers" list in 2010.[152] In 2012, Rolling Stone ranked Cash's 1968 live album At Folsom Prison and 1994 studio album American Recordings at No. 88[153] and No. 366[154] in its list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.
In recognition of his lifelong support of SOS Children's Villages, his family invited friends and fans to donate to the Johnny Cash Memorial Fund in his memory. He had a personal link with the SOS village in Dießen, at the Ammersee Lake in Bavaria, near where he was stationed as a GI, and with the SOS village in Barrett Town, by Montego Bay, near his holiday home in Jamaica.[155][156]
In January 2006, Cash's lakeside home on Caudill Drive in Hendersonville was sold to Bee Gees vocalist Barry Gibb and wife Linda for $2.3 million. On April 10, 2007, during major renovation works carried out for Gibb, a fire broke out at the house, spreading quickly due to a flammable wood preservative that had been used. The building was completely destroyed.[157]
One of Cash's final collaborations with producer Rick Rubin, American V: A Hundred Highways, was released posthumously on July 4, 2006. The album debuted at number one on the Billboard Top 200 album chart for the week ending July 22, 2006. On February 23, 2010, three days before what would have been Cash's 78th birthday, the Cash Family, Rick Rubin, and Lost Highway Records released his second posthumous record, titled American VI: Ain't No Grave.
The main street in Hendersonville, Tennessee, Highway 31E, is known as "Johnny Cash Parkway".[158] The Johnny Cash Museum, located in one of Cash's properties in Hendersonville until 2006, dubbed the House of Cash, was sold based on Cash's will. Prior to this, having been closed for a number of years, the museum had been featured in Cash's music video for "Hurt". The house subsequently burned down during the renovation by the new owner. A new museum, founded by Shannon and Bill Miller, opened April 26, 2013, in downtown Nashville.[159]
On November 2–4, 2007, the Johnny Cash Flower Pickin' Festival was held in Starkville, Mississippi, where Cash had been arrested more than 40 years earlier and held overnight at the city jail on May 11, 1965. The incident inspired Cash to write the song "Starkville City Jail". The festival, where he was offered a symbolic posthumous pardon, honored Cash's life and music, and was expected to become an annual event.[160]
JC Unit One, Johnny Cash's private tour bus from 1980 until 2003, was put on exhibit at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, Ohio, in 2007. The museum offers public tours of the bus on a seasonal basis (it is stored during the winter and not exhibited during those times).[161]
A limited-edition Forever stamp honoring Cash went on sale June 5, 2013. The stamp features a promotional picture of Cash taken around the 1963 release of Ring of Fire: The Best of Johnny Cash.[162]
On October 14, 2014, the City of Folsom unveiled phase 1 of the Johnny Cash Trail to the public with a dedication and ribbon-cutting ceremony attended by Rosanne Cash. Along the trail, eight larger-than-life public art pieces will tell the story of Johnny Cash, his connection to Folsom Prison, and his epic musical career. The Johnny Cash Trail features art selected by a committee that included Cindy Cash, a 2-acre (0.81 ha) Legacy Park, and over 3 miles (4.8 km) of multi-use class-I bike trail. The artists responsible for the sculptures are Sacramento-based Romo Studios, LLC and the Fine Art Studio of Rotblatt Amrany, from Illinois.[163]
In 2015, a new species of black tarantula was identified near Folsom Prison and named Aphonopelma johnnycashi in his honor.
In 2016, the Nashville Sounds Minor League Baseball team added the "Country Legends Race" to its between-innings entertainment. At the middle of the fifth inning, people in oversized foam caricature costumes depicting Cash, as well as George Jones, Reba McEntire, and Dolly Parton, race around the warning track at First Horizon Park from center field to the home plate side of the first base dugout.[164]
On February 8, 2018, the album Forever Words was announced, putting music to poems that Cash had written and which were published in book form in 2016.[165]
Johnny Cash's boyhood home in Dyess was listed in the National Register of Historic Places on May 2, 2018, as "Farm No. 266, Johnny Cash Boyhood Home."[27]
The Arkansas Country Music Awards honored Johnny Cash's legacy with the Lifetime Achievement award on June 3, 2018. The ceremony was held that same date, which was a Monday night at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock in Little Rock, Arkansas. The nominations took place in early 2018.[166][167]
In 2019, Sheryl Crow released a duet with Cash on her song "Redemption Day" for her album Threads. Crow, who had originally written and recorded the song in 1996, recorded new vocals and added them to those of Cash, who recorded the song for his American VI: Ain't No Grave album.[168]
In April 2019, it was announced that the state of Arkansas would place a statue of Cash in the National Statuary Hall in an effort to represent the modern history of Arkansas. The Governor of Arkansas, Asa Hutchinson, stated that Cash's contributions to music made him an appropriate figure to tell the story of the state.[169]
In April 2024, unfinished and unreleased demos recorded by Cash were announced to be released in a new compilation album, Songwriter. The album – co-produced by Cash's son, John Carter Cash – contains eleven songs, recorded in 1993 with guest artists including Vince Gill and the Black Keys. Songwriter's release date was announced as June 28, 2024.[170]

Portrayals[edit]
Country singer Mark Collie portrayed Cash in John Lloyd Miller's award-winning 1999 short film I Still Miss Someone.
In November 2005, Walk the Line, a biographical film about Cash's life, was released in the United States to considerable commercial success and critical acclaim. The film featured Joaquin Phoenix as Johnny (for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor) and Reese Witherspoon as June (for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress). Phoenix and Witherspoon also won the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy and Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy, respectively. They both performed their own vocals in the film (with their version of "Jackson" being released as a single), and Phoenix learned to play guitar for the role. Phoenix received a Grammy Award for his contributions to the soundtrack. John Carter Cash, the son of Johnny and June, served as an executive producer.
On March 12, 2006, Ring of Fire, a jukebox musical of the Cash oeuvre, debuted on Broadway at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, but closed due to harsh reviews and disappointing sales on April 30. Million Dollar Quartet, a musical portraying the early Sun recording sessions involving Cash, Elvis Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Carl Perkins, debuted on Broadway on April 11, 2010. Actor Lance Guest portrayed Cash. The musical was nominated for three awards at the 2010 Tony Awards and won one.
Robert Hilburn, veteran Los Angeles Times pop music critic, the journalist who accompanied Cash in his 1968 Folsom prison tour, and interviewed Cash many times throughout his life including months before his death, published a 688-page biography with 16 pages of photographs in 2013.[171] The meticulously reported biography is said to have filled in the 80% of Cash's life that was unknown, including details about Cash's battles with addiction and infidelity.[172][53][173]

Awards and honors[edit]
For detailed lists of music awards, see List of awards received by Johnny Cash.


If there were a hall of fame for creating larger-than-life personae, Cash would no doubt have been elected to it as well. His 1971 song "Man in Black" codified an image that the singer had assumed naturally for more than fifteen years at that point. Part rural preacher, part outlaw Robin Hood, he was a blue-collar prophet who, dressed in stark contrast to the glinting rhinestones and shimmering psychedelia of the time, spoke truth to power.


—Johnny Cash: Remembering the Incomparable Legend of Country, Rock and Roll, Rolling Stone.[174]

Cash received multiple Country Music Association Awards, Grammys, and other awards, in categories ranging from vocal and spoken performances to album notes and videos. In a career that spanned almost five decades, Cash was the personification of country music to many people around the world. Cash was a musician who was not defined by a single genre. He recorded songs that could be considered rock and roll, blues, rockabilly, folk, and gospel, and exerted an influence on each of those genres.
His diversity was evidenced by his presence in five major music halls of fame: the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame (1977), the Country Music Hall of Fame (1980), the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (1992), GMA's Gospel Music Hall of Fame (2010). and the Memphis Music Hall of Fame (2013).[175][176] Marking his death in 2003, Rolling Stone stated other than Elvis Presley Cash was the only artist inducted as a performer into both the Country Music Hall of Fame and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.[174]
His contributions to the genre have been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.[177] Cash received the Kennedy Center Honors in 1996 and stated that his induction into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1980 was his greatest professional achievement. In 2001, he was awarded the National Medal of Arts.[178] "Hurt" was nominated for six VMAs at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. The only VMA the video won was that for Best Cinematography. With the video, Johnny Cash became the oldest artist ever nominated for an MTV Video Music Award.[179] Justin Timberlake, who won Best Video that year for "Cry Me a River", said in his acceptance speech: "This is a travesty! I demand a recount. My grandfather raised me on Johnny Cash, and I think he deserves this more than any of us in here tonight."[180]

Discography[edit]
Main articles: Johnny Cash albums discography, Johnny Cash singles discography, and Johnny Cash Sun Records discography
See also: List of songs recorded by Johnny Cash

Johnny Cash with His Hot and Blue Guitar! (1957)
The Fabulous Johnny Cash (1958)
Hymns by Johnny Cash (1959)
Songs of Our Soil (1959)
Now, There Was a Song! (1960)
Ride This Train (1960)
Hymns from the Heart (1962)
The Sound of Johnny Cash (1962)
Blood, Sweat and Tears (1963)
The Christmas Spirit (1963)
Keep on the Sunny Side (with the Carter Family) (1964)
I Walk the Line (1964)
Bitter Tears: Ballads of the American Indian (1964)
Orange Blossom Special (1965)
Johnny Cash Sings the Ballads of the True West (1965)
Everybody Loves a Nut (1966)
Happiness Is You (1966)
Carryin' On with Johnny Cash & June Carter (with June Carter) (1967)
From Sea to Shining Sea (1968)
The Holy Land (1969)
Hello, I'm Johnny Cash (1970)
Man in Black (1971)
A Thing Called Love (1972)
America: A 200-Year Salute in Story and Song (1972)
The Johnny Cash Family Christmas (1972)
Any Old Wind That Blows (1973)
Johnny Cash and His Woman (with June Carter Cash) (1973)
Ragged Old Flag (1974)
The Junkie and the Juicehead Minus Me (1974)
The Johnny Cash Children's Album (1975)
Johnny Cash Sings Precious Memories (1975)
John R. Cash (1975)
Look at Them Beans (1975)
One Piece at a Time (1976)
The Last Gunfighter Ballad (1977)
The Rambler (1977)
I Would Like to See You Again (1978)
Gone Girl (1978)
Silver (1979)
A Believer Sings the Truth (1979)
Johnny Cash Sings with the BC Goodpasture Christian School (1979)
Rockabilly Blues (1980)
Classic Christmas (1980)
The Baron (1981)
The Adventures of Johnny Cash (1982)
Johnny 99 (1983)
Highwayman (with Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson & Kris Kristofferson) (1985)
Rainbow (1985)
Heroes (with Waylon Jennings) (1986)
Class of '55 (with Roy Orbison, Jerry Lee Lewis & Carl Perkins) (1986)
Believe in Him (1986)
Johnny Cash Is Coming to Town (1987)
Classic Cash: Hall of Fame Series (1988)
Water from the Wells of Home (1988)
Boom Chicka Boom (1990)
Highwayman 2 (with Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson & Kris Kristofferson) (1990)
The Mystery of Life (1991)
Country Christmas (1991)
American Recordings (1994)
The Road Goes on Forever (with Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson & Kris Kristofferson) (1995)
American II: Unchained (1996)
American III: Solitary Man (2000)
American IV: The Man Comes Around (2002)
My Mother's Hymn Book (2004)
American V: A Hundred Highways (2006)
American VI: Ain't No Grave (2010)
Out Among the Stars (2014)
Songwriter (2024)

Filmography[edit]
Film[edit]




Year

Title

Role

Notes


1961

Five Minutes to Live

Johnny Cabot

Also titled Door-To-Door Maniac


1967

The Road to Nashville

Himself




1971

A Gunfight

Abe Cross




1973

Gospel Road: A Story of Jesus

Narrator/Himself


1983

Kairei

Uncle John

Japanese film[181]


1994

Gene Autry, Melody of the West

Narrator

Documentary film; voice acting role


2003

The Hunted

Narrator

Voice acting role


2014

The Winding Stream

Interview subject

Documentary film; archive footage

Television[edit]




Year

Title

Role

Notes


1959

Shotgun Slade

Sheriff

Episode: "The Stalkers"


1959

Wagon Train

Frank Hoag

Episode: "The C.L. Harding Story


1960

The Rebel

Pratt

Episode: "The Death of Gray"


1961

The Deputy

Bo Braddock

Episode: "The Deathly Quiet"


1969–1971

The Johnny Cash Show

Himself – host and performer

58 episodes


1970

NET Playhouse

John Ross

Episode: "Trail of Tears"


1970

The Partridge Family

Variety Show Host

Episode: "What? Get Out of Show Business?"


1973–1992

Sesame Street

Himself

4 episodes


1974–1988

Hee Haw

Himself

4 episodes


1974

Columbo

Tommy Brown

Episode: "Swan Song"


1974

Johnny Cash Ridin' the Rails—The Great American Train Story

Himself




1976

Johnny Cash and Friends

Himself

4 episodes


1976

Little House on the Prairie

Caleb Hodgekiss

Episode: "The Collection"


1976–1985

Johnny Cash specials (various titles)

Himself

15 specials


1978

Thaddeus Rose and Eddie

Thaddeus Rose

Television film


1978

Steve Martin: A Wild and Crazy Guy

Himself

Television special[182]


1980

The Muppet Show

Himself

Episode: "#5.21"


1981

The Pride of Jesse Hallam

Jesse Hallam

Television film


1982

Saturday Night Live

Himself

Episode: "Johnny Cash/Elton John"


1983

Murder in Coweta County

Lamarr Potts

Television film; also producer


1984

The Baron and the Kid

The BaronWill

Television film


1985

North and South

John Brown

6 episodes


1986

The Last Days of Frank and Jesse James

Frank James

Television film


1986

Stagecoach

Curly Wilcox

Television film


1988

The Magical World of Disney

Elder Davy Crockett

Episode: "Rainbow in the Thunder"


1993–1997

Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman

Kid Cole

4 episodes


1996

Renegade

Henry Travis

Episode: "The Road Not Taken"


1997

The Simpsons

Space Coyote

Episode: "El Viaje Misterioso de Nuestro Jomer (The Mysterious Voyage of Homer)"; voice acting role


1998

All My Friends Are Cowboys

Himself

Television special


2014

 Johnny Cash: The Man, His World, His Music 

Himself

Television film; BBC Bio Documentary by Robert Elfstrom;[183] archive footage

Published works[edit]
Man in Black: His Own Story in His Own Words, Zondervan, 1975; ISBN 99924-31-58-X
Man in White, a novel about the Apostle Paul, HarperCollins, 1986; ISBN 0-06-250132-1
Cash: The Autobiography, with Patrick Carr, HarperCollins, 1997; ISBN 978-0-06-101357-7[184]
Johnny Cash Reads the New Testament, Thomas Nelson, 2011; ISBN 978-1-4185-4883-4[185]
Recollections by Johnny Cash, edited by daughter Tara, 2014; ISBN 978-0-930677-03-9
The Man Who Carried Cash: Saul Holiff, Johnny Cash, and the Making of an American Icon by Julie Chadwick, Dundurn Press, 2017; ISBN 978-1-459737-23-5
Cash, Johnny; Mark Stielper; John Carter Cash (November 14, 2023). Johnny Cash: The Life in Lyrics. New York: Voracious; Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 9780316503105. OCLC 1407575187.
Notes[edit]


^ Although Cash's voice type endured over the years, his timbre changed noticeably. Pareles writes: "Through a recording career that stretches back to 1955, Cash's bass-baritone voice has gone from gravelly to grave."[3]

^ For Cash, black stage attire was a "symbol of rebellion—against a stagnant status quo, against ... hypocritical houses of God, against people whose minds are closed to others' ideas".[9]

^  Schultz refers to this phrase as Cash's "trademark greeting", and places his utterance of this line, on Cash's At Folsom Prison album, "among the most electrifying [seconds] in the history of concert recording."[10]

^ When RCA Victor signed Presley, it had also bought his Sun Records masters, but when Cash departed for Columbia, Phillips retained the rights to the singer's Sun masters. Columbia eventually licensed some of these recordings for release on compilations after Cash's death.

^ Other appraisals of Cash's iconic value have been even bolder.[127]

^ Urbanski[142] notes that Cash's habit of performing in black attire began in a church.  In the following paragraph, he[143] quotes Cash[9] as indicating that this habit was partially reflective of Cash's rebellion "against our hypocritical houses of God.

^ According to Urbanski, Cash's self-perception was accurate: "He never intended to be categorized or pigeonholed", and indeed he amassed a "cluster of enigmas" which "was so impenetrably deep that even those closest to him never got to see every part of him".[144]


References[edit]


^ a b "Johnny Cash | Biography, Albums, Streaming Links". AllMusic.

^ a b c Johnson, Howard (September 12, 2016). "A tribute to Johnny Cash, the ultimate rebel and rock star". Classic Rock Magazine.

^ a b c Pareles, Jon (September 16, 1994). "Pop Review; Johnny Cash, Austerely Direct From Deep Within". The New York Times. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Mulligan, J. (February 24, 2010), "Johnny Cash: American VI: Ain't No Grave", Entertainment.ie (album review), retrieved March 22, 2010

^ Urbanski 2003, p. xiv.

^ Dickie, M. (2002) [1987]. "Hard talk from the God-fearin', pro-metal man in Black". In Streissguth, M. (ed.). Ring of fire: The Johnny Cash reader. Cambridge, MA: Da Capo. pp. 201–205. ISBN 9780306811227.

^ a b c Streissguth, M. (2006). Johnny Cash: a biography. Philadelphia, PA: Da Capo. p. 196. ISBN 9780306813689.

^ Fox, JA (October 17, 2005), "Hard time's never a 'circus'", The Boston Herald, Baylor University, archived from the original on September 20, 2006, retrieved March 22, 2010

^ a b c Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. p. 64. ISBN 0060727535. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Schultz, B. (July 1, 2000), "Classic Tracks: Johnny Cash's 'Folsom Prison Blues'", Mix, archived from the original on January 2, 2010, retrieved March 22, 2010

^ For discussion of, and lyrics to, Cash's songs, see Cusic, D., ed. (2004), Johnny Cash: The songs, New York, NY: Thunder's Mouth, ISBN 9781560256298[permanent dead link]

^ Holden, Stephen (September 13, 2003), "Johnny Cash, Country Music Bedrock, Dies at 71", The New York Times, retrieved February 25, 2013

^ Jones, Rebecca (January 14, 2014). "More Johnny Cash material will be released says son". BBC News. Retrieved February 13, 2016.

^ Miller 2003, p. 341.

^ Ellis, A. (2004, 01). "The man in black: Johnny cash, 1932–2003". Guitar Player, 38, 31–32, 34.

^ "Johnny Cash's Funeral", Johnny and June Carter Cash Memorial, Buddy Case, retrieved January 16, 2009

^ "Reba Cash Hancock", Harpeth Family Funeral Services, Harpeth hills, archived from the original on July 15, 2012, retrieved January 16, 2009

^ Millar, Anna (June 4, 2006), "Celtic connection as Cash walks the line in Fife", Scotland on Sunday, Scotsman, retrieved April 12, 2011

^ Cash, Rosanne (2010). A memoir. Viking Press. ISBN 978-1-101-45769-6.

^ Manzoor, Sarfraz (February 7, 2010), "Scottish roots of Johnny Cash, the man in black tartan", The Guardian, London, UK, retrieved April 12, 2011

^ a b Henry Louis Gates Jr., Rosanne Cash (February 23, 2021). "African American Ancestry". Season 7, Episode 6: Country Roots (TV show). Finding Your Roots. PBS. Retrieved November 12, 2021.

^ a b Miller 2003, p. 11.

^ Dalton, Stephanie (January 15, 2006). "Walking the line back in time". Scotland on Sunday. Archived from the original on October 21, 2007. Retrieved June 28, 2007.

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. p. 3. ISBN 0-06-072753-5. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Cash, William (October 24, 2019). "Me and my cousin Johnny, by William Cash". Thetimes.co.uk.

^ Streissguth, M. (2006). Johnny Cash: a biography. Philadelphia, PA: Da Capo. p. 6. ISBN 978-0-306-81591-1.

^ a b Bowden, Bill (May 5, 2018). "National Register accepts Johnny Cash boyhood home in Arkansas". ArkansasOnline. Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. Archived from the original on May 5, 2018. Retrieved May 7, 2018.

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. p. 20. ISBN 0-06-072753-5. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ "Why Did Johnny Cash Always Wear Black? 25 Facts About America's Outlaw". Archived from the original on June 22, 2019. Retrieved June 21, 2019.

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. pp. 24–26. ISBN 0-06-072753-5. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Gross, Terry (2004). All I Did Was Ask: Conversations with Writers, Actors Musicians, and Artists (Hardcover ed.). Hachette Books. p. 31.

^ "Johnny Cash: The 'Fresh Air' Interview". NPR. November 24, 2016. Retrieved February 27, 2019. And I'd sing Dennis Day songs like. ...Yeah, songs that he sang on the Jack Benny show. Every week, he sang an old Irish folk song. And next day in the fields, I'd be singing that song if I was working in the fields.

^ Abbott, William. "Johnny Cash – February 26, 1932 – September 12, 2003". Southernmusic.net. Retrieved December 31, 2011.

^ Johnny Cash: The Biography (p. 42)

^ Murray, Robin (March 8, 2023). "So, Was Johnny Cash The First American To Learn Of Joseph Stalin's Death?". Clash Music. mtc. Retrieved March 10, 2023.

^ Kemp, Sam (March 9, 2022). "How did Johnny Cash become the first American to learn of Joseph Stalin's death?". Far Out Magazine. Retrieved March 10, 2023.

^ Malone, William; McCulloh, Judith (1975), Stars of Country Music, Chicago, IL{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

^ Berkowitz, Kenny (June 2001). "No Regrets – Johnny Cash, the man in black, is back at the top of his game". AcousticGuitar.com (102). Archived from the original on August 12, 2008. Retrieved June 28, 2009.

^ Johnny Cash Things You Didn't Know About Johnny Cash at Taste of Country. Retrieved September 24, 2016

^ Johnny Cash at TV People Archived August 25, 2019, at the Wayback Machine Retrieved September 24

^ "Johnny Cash Biography and Interview". Achievement.org. American Academy of Achievement.

^ "The Man in Black's Musical Journey Continues", NPR, retrieved February 9, 2010

^ "10 Things you didn't know about Johnny Cash". Rolling Stone. October 31, 2013. Archived from the original on October 16, 2014. Retrieved August 29, 2014.

^ "Rainbow Quest". Richardandmimi.com. February 26, 1966. Retrieved August 1, 2012.

^ "My Father and The Man in Black". Johnny-and-saul.com. Archived from the original on May 17, 2014. Retrieved April 25, 2014.

^ a b Johnny Cash interviewed on the Pop Chronicles (1969)

^ Cash, Vivian; Sharpsteen, Ann (2007). I Walked the Line: My Life with Johnny (Hardcover ed.). Simon & Schuster. p. 294. ISBN 978-1416532927. Retrieved February 28, 2019.

^ "Major brush fire." Los Angeles Times, June 28, 1965, p. 1.

^ "Control of Brush Fire Near; 700 Acres Burned." Los Angeles Times, June 29, 1965, p. 27.

^ Hilburn, Robert (2013). Johnny Cash: The Life (ebook ed.). Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 978-0-316-19475-4.

^ Hilburn, 2013 (ebook)

^ Johnson, Brett (November 18, 2007), "Cash's first wife tells of romance, heartbreak", Ventura County Star. Retrieved July 9, 2013.

^ a b Hilburn, Robert (October 12, 2013). "Johnny Cash's dark California days". LA Times. Retrieved February 20, 2018.

^ Williford, Stanley and Howard Hertel. "Singer Johnny Cash Pays $82,000 to U.S. in Fire Case", Los Angeles Times, July 3, 1969, p. A3.

^ Johnny Cash, At San Quentin, Columbia Records CS 9827, 1969

^ Hilburn, Robert (October 12, 2013). "Johnny Cash's dark California days". Los Angeles Times. ISSN 0458-3035. Archived from the original on December 19, 2013. Retrieved November 8, 2018.

^ "Past Winners Search". The GRAMMYs. April 30, 2017.

^ "12 000 at LaFayette show", Rome News Tribune, LaFayette, Georgia, p. 5A, August 14, 1970

^ Gross (2004). p. 34

^ Zwonitzer, Mark (2002). Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone: The Carter Family and Their Legacy in American Music. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-684-85763-3.

^ Grant, Marshall (2005). I Was There When It Happened – My Life With Johnny Cash. Cumberland House. pp. 92, 177. ISBN 978-1-58182-510-7.

^ Grant, Marshall (2005). I Was There When It Happened – My Life With Johnny Cash. Cumberland House. ISBN 978-1-58182-510-7.

^ a b Cash, John Carter (2007). Anchored in Love. Thomas Nelson. ISBN 978-0-8499-0187-4.

^ "Inmate Merle Haggard hears Johnny Cash play San Quentin State Prison", history.com; accessed June 24, 2014.

^ Edwards, Leigh H. "Cash, Johnny." Grove Music Online. Oxford Music Online. Oxford University Press.

^ Edwards, Leigh (2009). Johnny Cash and the paradox of American Identity. Bloomington : Indiana University Press. ISBN 978-0-253-35292-7.

^ Tahmahkera, Dustin (2011). ""An Indian in a White Man's Camp": Johnny Cash's Indian Country Music". American Quarterly. 63 (3): 591–617. doi:10.1353/aq.2011.0039. ISSN 0003-0678. S2CID 143509936. Retrieved June 26, 2018.

^ Cash, Johnny (1966). "Johnny Cash and June Carter Cash". Rainbow Quest. Season 1. Episode 39.

^ Cash, J., & Carr, P. (1997). Cash: The autobiography (p. 408). San Francisco, CA: HarperSanFrancisco.

^ Tahmahkera, D. (2011). Volume 63. In American Quarterly (p. 597). Maryland: The Johns Hopkins University Press.

^ "Johnny Cash and June Carter (Television series episode). In Rainbow Quest. Pete Seeger". YouTube. 1965.[dead YouTube link]

^ a b "The bitter tears of Johnny Cash". Salon.com. November 9, 2009. Retrieved February 25, 2020.

^ Tahmahkera, D. (2011). Volume 63. In American Quarterly (pp. 598–599). Maryland: The Johns Hopkins University Press.

^ "Advertisement". Billboard. August 22, 1964. p. 31.

^ "[Television series episode]. In The Johnny Cash Show. Johnny Cash". YouTube. 1970. Archived from the original on December 21, 2021.

^ Singer Johnny Cash adopted by Senecas[permanent dead link]. Unidentified Western New York newspaper (June 25, 1966). "Cash is one-quarter Cherokee: his paternal grandmother was a full-blood Cherokee."

^ Tahmahkera, D. (2011). Volume 63. In American Quarterly (p. 592). Maryland: The Johns Hopkins University Press.

^ Burnett, John G. (December 11, 1890). "Birthday Story of Private John G. Burnett, Captain Abraham McClellan's Company, 2nd Regiment, 2nd Brigade, Mounted Infantry, Cherokee Indian Removal, 1838–39". Creoliste. Retrieved November 4, 2016.

^ "Bitter Tears: Ballads of the American Indian". The Bluegrass Special. August 2010. Archived from the original on November 5, 2016. Retrieved November 4, 2016.

^ a b "Johnny Cash's excellent music variety TV show ran 58 episodes but was canceled in a "rural purge"". The Vintage News. August 10, 2017. Retrieved November 8, 2018.

^ "Johnny Cash Live Performances". Johnny Cash Infocenter. September 11, 1956. Archived from the original on February 24, 2021. Retrieved February 5, 2020.

^ "Details". Johnny Cash Infocenter. September 15, 1969. Archived from the original on February 25, 2021. Retrieved February 5, 2020.

^ Jojola, Lloyd (January 31, 2011). "ABQJOURNAL PROFILES: Sanchez: Matriarch to Musicians". Albuquerque Journal. Archived from the original on February 5, 2020. Retrieved February 5, 2020.

^ "Heath Holland On ... Little Fauss and Big Halsy". Fthismovie.net. Retrieved November 8, 2018.

^ "Ballad of Little Fauss". Goldenglobes.com. Archived from the original on November 9, 2018. Retrieved November 8, 2018.

^ The Best of the Johnny Cash TV Show 1969–1971, vol. Disc 1 (of 2), Reverse Angle Production, 2007

^ Dave Urbanski, The Man Comes Around: The Spiritual Journey of Johnny Cash, Relevant Books, 2003, p. 91.

^ a b Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. pp. 85–86. ISBN 0060727535. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ "The good, bad and ugly of proposed uniforms". Navy Times. October 4, 2004.

^ Turner Publishing (2004). Lionel Trains: A Pictorial History of Trains and Their Collectors. Turner Publishing Company. p. 19. ISBN 978-1-56311-958-3.

^ Allmond, Joy (September 13, 2015). "Johnny Cash's Faith and Friendship with Billy Graham". Billy Graham Evangelistic Association.

^ Dave Urbanski, The Man Comes Around: The Spiritual Journey of Johnny Cash. Relevant Books, 2003, p. 117.

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. ISBN 0060727535. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Nixon Welcomes 'The Man in Black' to the White House, Nixon Foundation, April 17, 2011, archived from the original on August 22, 2011

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (1997). Cash: The Autobiography (hardcover ed.). Harper Collins. p. 304. ISBN 9780062515001. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (2003). Cash: The Autobiography. Harper Collins. p. 212. ISBN 0060727535. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ Richard Nixon, April 17, 1970, released on Johnny Cash, Bootleg Vol. III: Live Around the World (Columbia/Legacy 88697 93033 2), released 2011

^ Halloran, R. July 4, 1976. "500,000 View Capital's Bicentennial Parade" New York Times.

^ "Lot 756 of 982: JOHNNY CASH BICENTENNIAL SHIRT". Julienslive.com.

^ Willett, E. (2011).Johnny Cash: "The Man in Black", p. 90. Berkeley Heights, NJ: Enslow.

^ "Johnny Cash: The Rebel", Exclaim.ca, Canada, p. 3, archived from the original on April 26, 2005

^ Robert Hilburn, Johnny Cash: The Life. New York: Little, Brown and Company, 2013, pp. 500–502

^ Lewis, Randy (December 10, 2013). "'Lost' Early-'80s Johnny Cash Album Slated for March 25 Release". Los Angeles Times.

^ Hilburn, p. 506

^ Thomson, Graeme (April 28, 2011). "The Resurrection of Johnny Cash". The Guardian. Retrieved April 9, 2018.

^ Gold, Adam (July 13, 2017). "How U2 Fell in Love with Nashville and Influenced Today's Country Music". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on December 9, 2017. Retrieved February 26, 2019.

^ "The Guitars of Johnny Cash", Fretbase.com, August 2008, archived from the original on October 1, 2008

^ Hochman, Steve (January 27, 1996). "ALBUM REVIEWS / POP : 'Twisted Willie' Gives Nelson Grunge Honors Treatment". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved August 1, 2018.

^ Cash, Johnny; Carr, Patrick (1998) [1997]. Cash: The Autobiography. New York, NY, USA: HarperCollins Publishers. pp. 400–403. ISBN 0061013579.

^ Robert Hilburn, Johnny Cash: The Life. New York: Little, Brown and Company, 2013, pp. 568–570

^ Carr, Eric (November 7, 2002). "Johnny Cash, American IV: The Man Comes Around". Pitchfork. Retrieved May 12, 2017.

^ "Geoff Rickly interviews Trent Reznor". Alternative Press. June 26, 2004. Archived from the original on October 15, 2017. Retrieved October 15, 2017.{{cite magazine}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)

^ Levy, Glen (July 28, 2011). "The 30 All-TIME Best Music Videos – Johnny Cash, Hurt". Time. Archived from the original on September 26, 2011. Retrieved August 19, 2011.

^ "100 Greatest Music Videos". NME. June 2, 2011. Retrieved December 15, 2012.

^ "Country Star June Carter Cash, Wife of Johnny Cash, Dies at 73". Mtv.com. Archived from the original on December 18, 2014.

^ Rees, Paul (October 2009). "The Q Interview: Rick Rubin". Q. p. 98.

^ Robert Hilburn, Johnny Cash: The Life. (New York: Little, Brown & Co., 2013), p. 624

^  Phil Sweetland, A Tribute to the Legacy of Johnny Cash in Word and Song, nytimes.com, USA, September 16, 2003 

^ "Why Hate Groups Went After Johnny Cash in the 1960s". History. Retrieved November 7, 2018.

^ Turner 2004, pp. 43–44.

^ Sweeting, Adam (September 12, 2003), "Johnny Cash", The Guardian (Obituary), London, UK, retrieved January 26, 2009

^ Puterbaugh, Parke. "Essential Johnny Cash." Rolling Stone, October 16, 2003: 78. International Index to Music Periodicals Full Text [ProQuest]. Web. June 12, 2016.

^  Stephen L. Betts, A Tribute to the Legacy of Johnny Cash in Word and Song, rollingstone.com, USA, May 10, 2019 

^ Johnny Cash, Man in Black, Zondervan, ISBN 978-99924-31-58-0

^ Clapp 2008, p. xvi.

^ Urbanski 2003.

^ Clapp 2008, p. xvi: 'Very few figures in recent history are seen as more representative of American identity as Cash ... His has often been suggested as the face that should be added to the select pantheon on Mt. Rushmore'

^ Clapp 2008, p. xviii.

^ Miller 2003, p. 227.

^ Dave Urbanski, The Man Comes Around: The Spiritual Journey of Johnny Cash. Relevant Books, 2003, p.99.

^ Stoudt, C. (June 9, 2009). "Review: 'Ring of Fire' at La Mirada Theatre". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 20, 2010.

^ Johnny Cash: Amazing Grace, Public Radio Exchange, 2010, retrieved January 20, 2010

^ Cash, Johnny (2008). Man in White (Paperback ed.). Thomas Nelson. p. xiii. ISBN 978-1595548368. I'm a Christian" [I said.] "Don't put me in another box.

^ Obituary: Johnny Cash, BBC News, September 12, 2003, retrieved January 20, 2010.

^ Ceretti, Evan (June 14, 2021). "6 Interesting Facts About Johnny Cash". Roadie Music Blog. Retrieved January 17, 2022.

^  Juli Thanki, For Johnny Cash, Billy Graham was friend and confidant, tennessean.com, USA, February 21, 2018

^ 13jalopy (June 17, 2011). "Johnny & June Cash on Billy Graham 1986". YouTube. Archived from the original on September 1, 2023.

^ pd bredon. "1989 Johnny Cash (Billy Graham Crusade, Little Rock, Arkansas) (Family Bible)". YouTube. Archived from the original on March 30, 2017.

^ Rivkin, D., ed. (2007), Johnny Cash reading the complete New Testament (audio recording) (deluxe ed.), Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson

^ Morris, E. (December 23, 2008), Johnny Cash's reading of the New Testament now on DVD, Country Music Television, archived from the original on December 26, 2008, retrieved January 20, 2010

^ Urbanski 2003, pp. xx–xxi.

^ Urbanski 2003, p. 39.

^ Urbanski 2003, pp. 39–40.

^ Urbanski, D. (2010). "Johnny Cash's complicated faith: Unwrapping the enigma of the Man in Black". Relevant Magazine. Archived from the original on February 27, 2010. Retrieved March 22, 2010.

^ Huss, J.; Werther, D., eds. (2008), Johnny Cash and philosophy: The burning ring of truth, Chicago, IL: Open Court

^ Johnny Cash and philosophy, Open Court, 2007, archived from the original on March 28, 2010, retrieved March 22, 2010

^ "Taking the Lead – Today's Christian". Archived from the original on April 10, 2008. Retrieved April 28, 2015.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)

^  Timothy Cockes, Johnny Cash documentary tells faith journey of Man in Black, baptistpress.com, USA, December 1, 2022 

^ "Cash's Unearthed box set". Billboard. October 22, 2003. Retrieved December 11, 2015.

^ Kristofferson, Kris. "Johnny Cash, No. 31". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on May 21, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2007.

^ "The Immortals: The First Fifty". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on March 16, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2007.

^ "100 Greatest Singers of All Time". Rollingstone.com. December 3, 2010. Archived from the original on July 1, 2018. Retrieved September 2, 2017.

^ "500 Greatest Albums of All Time". Rollingstone.com. May 31, 2012. Archived from the original on August 18, 2017. Retrieved September 2, 2017.

^ "500 Greatest Albums of All Time". Rollingstone.com. May 31, 2012. Archived from the original on September 27, 2017. Retrieved September 2, 2017.

^ "Johnny Cash", Celebrities as partners, SOS Children's Villages, archived from the original on May 18, 2008

^ "Johnny Cash", Supporters, USA: SOS Children's Villages, archived from the original on June 18, 2018, retrieved June 18, 2018

^ "Fire destroys Johnny Cash house". BBC. April 11, 2007. Retrieved September 29, 2010.

^ Bordsen, Ridder (December 24, 2000). "NASHVILLE COUNTRY". The Chicago Tribune. Retrieved February 24, 2019.

^ Rutz, Heather (June 7, 2013). "Lima native creative director at new Johnny Cash museum". The Lima News. Retrieved December 11, 2015.

^ "Mississippi town to honor the 'Man in Black'". NBC News. September 6, 2007. Retrieved December 31, 2007.

^ Soeder, John (May 19, 2010). "Johnny Cash's tour bus returns to Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum". The Plain Dealer. Retrieved December 11, 2015.

^ "Johnny Cash Stamp Release Celebrated By Family". Huffington Post. June 3, 2013. Retrieved June 3, 2013.

^ "Folsom, CA – Johnny Cash Trail & Art Experience". Folsom.ca.us. Archived from the original on January 16, 2017. Retrieved January 13, 2017.

^ "Opening Night at First Tennessee Park". The Tennessean. April 7, 2016. Retrieved April 8, 2016.

^ Barsanti, Sam (February 8, 2018). "Elvis Costello, Chris Cornell, and More Helped Turn Some Johnny Cash Poems into Songs". The A.V. Club. Univision.

^ "Johnny Cash". Arkansas Country Music Awards Nominees. Archived from the original on January 9, 2019. Retrieved January 8, 2019.

^ "Winners of inaugural Arkansas Country Music Awards announced". Arkansas Online. June 5, 2018. Retrieved January 9, 2019.

^ Sexton, Paul (April 21, 2019). "Sheryl Crow Shares Powerful "Duet" With Johnny Cash, 'Redemption Day'".

^ Colby Itkowitz (April 17, 2019). "Johnny Cash to replace Confederate statue on Capitol Hill". The Washington Post.

^ Beaumont-Thomas, Ben (April 23, 2024). "Lost Johnny Cash songs from 1993 to be released as a new album". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved April 23, 2024.

^ Hilburn, Robert (2013). Johnny Cash: The Life (Deckle Edge). New York City: Little Brown and Company. ISBN 978-0-316-19475-4.

^ Kinchen, David (November 3, 2013). "BOOK REVIEW: 'Johnny Cash': Meticulous Attention to Facts Sets Robert Hilburn's Biography Apart". Huntington News. Archived from the original on December 17, 2014. Retrieved December 12, 2013.

^ Hilburn, Robert (October 29, 2013). "Interview: Robert Hilburn, Author Of 'Johnny Cash: The Life'". NPR. Retrieved April 25, 2014.

^ a b "Johnny Cash: Remembering the Incomparable Legend of Country, Rock and Roll". Rolling Stone. Retrieved April 1, 2020.

^ "Johnny Cash", Inductees, Country Music Hall of Fame, archived from the original on May 4, 2017, retrieved May 2, 2017

^ "Johnny Cash", Inductees, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame

^ "RHOF Inductees with Certificates". Rockabilly Hall of Fame. Archived from the original on May 18, 2019. Retrieved December 31, 2007.

^ "Lifetime Honors", National Medal of Arts, April 24, 2013

^ "Johnny Cash – Memories Shared". Songstuff.com. Retrieved June 27, 2013.

^ "Quotables "August 29, 2003 Justin Timberlake on Johnny Cash"". Archived from the original on April 7, 2014. Retrieved April 5, 2014.

^ "Otokichi Movie – Kairei". Jmottoson.com. Retrieved September 21, 2018.

^ "'Steve Martin: The Television Stuff' on DVD". Entertainment Weekly.

^ "BBC Four – Johnny Cash: The Man, His World, His Music". BBC.

^ "Johnny Cash – Cash: The Autobiography of Johnny Cash Review". SocialBookshelves.com. July 11, 2014. Retrieved July 13, 2014.

^ "Johnny Cash Reads the New Testament". barnesandnoble.com. Retrieved November 24, 2014.


Bibliography[edit]

Clapp, R (2008), Johnny Cash and the Great American Contradiction: Christianity and the Battle for the Soul of a Nation, Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox, ISBN 978-0-664-23657-1.
Gross, Terry (2004). All I Did Was Ask: Conversations with Writers, Actors, Musicians, and Artists (hardcover ed.). Hachette.
Miller, Stephen (2003), Johnny Cash: The Life of an American Icon, Omnibus, ISBN 978-0-7119-9626-7.
Streissguth, Michael (2004). Johnny Cash at Folsom Prison: The Making of a Masterpiece (hardcover ed.). Cambridge, Massachusetts: Da Capo Press. ISBN 978-0-306-81338-2..
Streissguth, Michael (2005) [2004]. Johnny Cash at Folsom Prison: The Making of a Masterpiece (paprback ed.). Cambridge, Massachusetts: Da Capo Press. ISBN 978-0-306-81453-2..
Turner, Stephen (2004), The Man Called Cash: The Life, Love, and Faith of an American Legend, Nashville, TN: W Publishing, ISBN 978-0-8499-1820-9.
Urbanski, David (2003), The Man Comes Around: The Spiritual Journey of Johnny Cash, New York, NY: Relevant Books, ISBN 978-0-9729276-7-3.

Further reading[edit]
Antonio D'Ambrosio, A Heartbeat and a Guitar: Johnny Cash and the Making of Bitter Tears, New York/New York, Perseus Books/Nation Books, 2009, ISBN 978-1-56858-637-3 (pb)
Robert Hilburn, Johnny Cash: The Life, Back Bay Books, New York: Little Brown and Company, 2013, ISBN 978-0-316-19474-7 (pb)
Jonathan Silverman, Nine Choices: Johnny Cash and American Culture, Amherst: University of Massachusetts, 2010, ISBN 1-55849-826-5
Graeme Thomson, The Resurrection of Johnny Cash: Hurt, Redemption, and American Recordings, Jawbone Press, ISBN 978-1-906002-36-7
Christopher S. Wren, Johnny Cash: Winners Got Scars, Too, Abacus Editions, ISBN 0-349-13740-4
External links[edit]


Johnny Cash  at Wikipedia's sister projects

Media from CommonsQuotations from WikiquoteData from Wikidata

Official website 
Sony Music's Johnny Cash website
"Candidates – Inductee Johnny Cash". Hit Parade Hall of Fame. Archived from the original on January 6, 2008..
Johnny Cash at AllMusic
Johnny Cash at IMDb
Johnny Cash profile at martinguitar.com
Holiff Family fonds / Johnny Cash collection University of Victoria Libraries, Special Collections & University Archives


Awards


FirstNone recognized before

 First Amendment Center/AMA "Spirit of Americana" Free Speech Award 2002

Succeeded byKris Kristofferson


Preceded byBuddy & Julie Miller

 AMA Album of the Year (artist) 2003

Succeeded byLoretta Lynn


Preceded byJim Lauderdale

 AMA Artist of the Year 2003

Succeeded byLoretta Lynn


vteJohnny Cash
Albums
Singles
Sun Records
Songs
Awards
Studio albums1950s
Johnny Cash with His Hot and Blue Guitar!
The Fabulous Johnny Cash
Hymns by Johnny Cash
Songs of Our Soil

1960s
Ride This Train
Now, There Was a Song!
Hymns from the Heart
The Sound of Johnny Cash
Blood, Sweat and Tears
The Christmas Spirit
I Walk the Line
Bitter Tears: Ballads of the American Indian
Orange Blossom Special
Johnny Cash Sings the Ballads of the True West
Everybody Loves a Nut
Happiness Is You
Carryin' On with Johnny Cash & June Carter
From Sea to Shining Sea
The Holy Land

1970s
Hello, I'm Johnny Cash
Man in Black
A Thing Called Love
America: A 200-Year Salute in Story and Song
The Johnny Cash Family Christmas
Any Old Wind That Blows
Johnny Cash and His Woman
Ragged Old Flag
The Junkie and the Juicehead Minus Me
The Johnny Cash Children's Album
Johnny Cash Sings Precious Memories
John R. Cash
Look at Them Beans
One Piece at a Time
The Last Gunfighter Ballad
The Rambler
I Would Like to See You Again
Gone Girl
Silver
A Believer Sings the Truth

1980s
Rockabilly Blues
Classic Christmas
The Baron
The Adventures of Johnny Cash
Johnny 99
Highwayman
Rainbow
Class of '55: Memphis Rock & Roll Homecoming
Heroes
Believe in Him
Johnny Cash Is Coming to Town
Classic Cash
Water from the Wells of Home

1990s
Highwayman 2
Boom Chicka Boom
The Mystery of Life
Country Christmas
American Recordings
The Road Goes on Forever
American II: Unchained

2000–2020s
American III: Solitary Man
American IV: The Man Comes Around
American V: A Hundred Highways
American VI: Ain't No Grave
Out Among the Stars
Songwriter
Live albums
At Folsom Prison
At San Quentin
The Johnny Cash Show
På Österåker
Strawberry Cake
Koncert v Praze (In Prague – Live)
VH1 Storytellers: Johnny Cash & Willie Nelson
At Madison Square Garden
A Concert Behind Prison Walls
Soundtracks
I Walk the Line
Little Fauss and Big Halsy
Compilations
Johnny Cash Sings the Songs That Made Him Famous
Greatest!
Johnny Cash Sings Hank Williams
Now Here's Johnny Cash
All Aboard the Blue Train with Johnny Cash
Original Sun Sound of Johnny Cash
Ring of Fire: The Best of Johnny Cash
Greatest Hits, Vol. 1
Heart of Cash
Greatest Hits, Vol. 2
Sunday Morning Coming Down
International Superstar
Five Feet High and Rising
Destination Victoria Station
Greatest Hits, Vol. 3
The Unissued Johnny Cash
Johnny & June
Tall Man
Encore
Biggest Hits
The Man in Black 1954–1958
The Man in Black 1959–1962
Come Along and Ride This Train
The Essential Johnny Cash (1992)
Wanted Man
The Man in Black 1963–1969
The Man in Black – His Greatest Hits
16 Biggest Hits
Love, God, Murder
The Essential Johnny Cash (2002)
Unearthed
The Legend
The Legend of Johnny Cash
Patriot
16 Biggest Hits: Johnny Cash & June Carter Cash
The Legend of Johnny Cash Vol. II
The Complete Columbia Album Collection
Johnny Cash and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra
Songs
"25 Minutes to Go"
"Seasons of My Heart"
"Any Old Wind That Blows"
"A Wonderful Time Up There"
"The Ballad of Boot Hill"
"The Ballad of Ira Hayes"
"Ballad of a Teenage Queen"
"Big River"
"Blistered"
"A Boy Named Sue"
"Busted"
"Cat's in the Cradle"
"Cocaine Blues"
"Cry! Cry! Cry!"
"Daddy Sang Bass"
"Dark as a Dungeon"
"Don't Take Your Guns to Town"
"Engine 143"
"Flesh and Blood"
"The Folk Singer"
"Folsom Prison Blues"
"Forty Shades of Green"
"Get Rhythm"
"Give My Love to Rose"
"Goodnight, Irene"
"Green, Green Grass of Home"
"Greystone Chapel"
"Guess Things Happen That Way"
"Hey, Porter"
"Home of the Blues"
"Hurt"
"I Couldn't Keep from Crying"
"I Love You Because"
"I Still Miss Someone"
"I Walk the Line"
"If I Had a Hammer"
"If I Were a Carpenter"
"In My Life"
"In the Jailhouse Now"
"It Ain't Me Babe"
"Jackson"
"Kate"
"Last Night I Had the Strangest Dream"
"The Man Comes Around"
"Man in Black"
"The Matador"
"Oh Lonesome Me"
"One Piece at a Time"
"Oney"
"Orange Blossom Special"
"The One on the Right Is on the Left"
"Remember the Alamo"
"(Ghost) Riders in the Sky"
"Ring of Fire"
"Rock Island Line"
"So Doggone Lonesome"
"Sunday Mornin' Comin' Down"
"Tennessee Flat Top Box"
"There Ain't No Good Chain Gang"
"A Thing Called Love"
"Understand Your Man"
"What Is Truth"
"What'd I Say"
"Without Love"
"You Are My Sunshine"
Television
The Johnny Cash Show
Biographies
Man in Black: His Own Story in His Own Words
Cash: The Autobiography
Johnny Cash! The Man, His World, His Music
My Father and the Man in Black
Walk the Line
Ring of Fire (musical)
Ring of Fire (2013 film)
Tribute albums
The Sound Behind Johnny Cash
Kindred Spirits: A Tribute to the Songs of Johnny Cash
Dressed in Black: A Tribute to Johnny Cash
Johnny's Blues: A Tribute to Johnny Cash
Walk the Line: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack
Fade to Black: Memories of Johnny
All Aboard: A Tribute to Johnny Cash
Johnny Cash Remixed
We Walk the Line: A Celebration of the Music of Johnny Cash
Forever Words
Associated acts
The Highwaymen
The Tennessee Three
Bob Wootton
Carl Perkins
W. S. Holland
Marshall Grant
Luther Perkins
Million Dollar Quartet
The Great Eighties Eight
Family
June Carter Cash
John Carter Cash
Rosanne Cash
Cindy Cash
Carlene Carter
Tommy Cash
Carter Family
Historical sites
Dyess, Arkansas
Johnny Cash Boyhood Home
Johnny Cash Museum
House of Cash
Carter Family Fold
Legacy
Statue of Johnny Cash
Category
Awards for Johnny Cash
vteAmerican Music Award of Merit
Bing Crosby (1974)
Berry Gordy (1975)
Irving Berlin (1976)
Johnny Cash (1977)
Ella Fitzgerald (1978)
Perry Como (1979)
Benny Goodman (1980)
Chuck Berry (1981)
Stevie Wonder (1982)
Kenny Rogers (1983)
Michael Jackson (1984)
Loretta Lynn (1985)
Paul McCartney (1986)
Elvis Presley (1987)
The Beach Boys (1988)
Willie Nelson (1989)
Neil Diamond (1990)
Merle Haggard (1991)
James Brown (1992)
Bill Graham (1993)
Whitney Houston (1994)
Prince (1995)
Tammy Wynette (1996)
Little Richard (1997)
Frank Sinatra (1998)
Billy Joel (1999)
Gloria Estefan (2000)
Janet Jackson (2001)
Garth Brooks (2002)
Alabama (2003)
Bon Jovi (2004)
Annie Lennox (2008)
Sting (2016)

vteCMA Entertainer of the Year
Eddy Arnold (1967)
Glen Campbell (1968)
Johnny Cash (1969)
Merle Haggard (1970)
Charley Pride (1971)
Loretta Lynn (1972)
Roy Clark (1973)
Charlie Rich (1974)
John Denver (1975)
Mel Tillis (1976)
Ronnie Milsap (1977)
Dolly Parton (1978)
Willie Nelson (1979)
Barbara Mandrell (1980)
Barbara Mandrell (1981)
Alabama (1982)
Alabama (1983)
Alabama (1984)
Ricky Skaggs (1985)
Reba McEntire (1986)
Hank Williams Jr. (1987)
Hank Williams Jr. (1988)
George Strait (1989)
George Strait (1990)
Garth Brooks (1991)
Garth Brooks (1992)
Vince Gill (1993)
Vince Gill (1994)
Alan Jackson (1995)
Brooks & Dunn (1996)
Garth Brooks (1997)
Garth Brooks (1998)
Shania Twain (1999)
Dixie Chicks (2000)
Tim McGraw (2001)
Alan Jackson (2002)
Alan Jackson (2003)
Kenny Chesney (2004)
Keith Urban (2005)
Kenny Chesney (2006)
Kenny Chesney (2007)
Kenny Chesney (2008)
Taylor Swift (2009)
Brad Paisley (2010)
Taylor Swift (2011)
Blake Shelton (2012)
George Strait (2013)
Luke Bryan (2014)
Luke Bryan (2015)
Garth Brooks (2016)
Garth Brooks (2017)
Keith Urban (2018)
Garth Brooks (2019)
Eric Church (2020)
Luke Combs (2021)
Luke Combs (2022)
Lainey Wilson (2023)

vteCMA Male Vocalist of the Year
Jack Greene (1967)
Glen Campbell (1968)
Johnny Cash (1969)
Merle Haggard (1970)
Charley Pride (1971)
Charley Pride (1972)
Charlie Rich (1973)
Ronnie Milsap (1974)
Waylon Jennings (1975)
Ronnie Milsap (1976)
Ronnie Milsap (1977)
Don Williams (1978)
Kenny Rogers (1979)
George Jones (1980)
George Jones (1981)
Ricky Skaggs (1982)
Lee Greenwood (1983)
Lee Greenwood (1984)
George Strait (1985)
George Strait (1986)
Randy Travis (1987)
Randy Travis (1988)
Ricky Van Shelton (1989)
Clint Black (1990)
Vince Gill (1991)
Vince Gill (1992)
Vince Gill (1993)
Vince Gill (1994)
Vince Gill (1995)
George Strait (1996)
George Strait (1997)
George Strait (1998)
Tim McGraw (1999)
Tim McGraw (2000)
Toby Keith (2001)
Alan Jackson (2002)
Alan Jackson (2003)
Keith Urban (2004)
Keith Urban (2005)
Keith Urban (2006)
Brad Paisley (2007)
Brad Paisley (2008)
Brad Paisley (2009)
Blake Shelton (2010)
Blake Shelton (2011)
Blake Shelton (2012)
Blake Shelton (2013)
Blake Shelton (2014)
Chris Stapleton (2015)
Chris Stapleton (2016)
Chris Stapleton (2017)
Chris Stapleton (2018)
Luke Combs (2019)
Luke Combs (2020)
Chris Stapleton (2021)
Chris Stapleton (2022)
Chris Stapleton (2023)

vteCMA Vocal Group of the Year
The Stoneman Family (1967)
Dolly Parton and Porter Wagoner (1968)
Johnny Cash and June Carter Cash (1969)
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers (1970)
Osborne Brothers (1971)
The Statler Brothers (1972)
The Statler Brothers (1973)
The Statler Brothers (1974)
The Statler Brothers (1975)
The Statler Brothers (1976)
The Statler Brothers (1977)
The Oak Ridge Boys (1978)
The Statler Brothers (1979)
The Statler Brothers (1980)
Alabama (1981)
Alabama (1982)
Alabama (1983)
The Statler Brothers (1984)
The Judds (1985)
The Judds (1986)
The Judds (1987)
Highway 101 (1988)
Highway 101 (1989)
The Kentucky Headhunters (1990)
The Kentucky Headhunters (1991)
Diamond Rio (1992)
Diamond Rio (1993)
Diamond Rio (1994)
The Mavericks (1995)
The Mavericks (1996)
Diamond Rio (1997)
Dixie Chicks (1998)
Dixie Chicks (1999)
Dixie Chicks (2000)
Lonestar (2001)
Dixie Chicks (2002)
Rascal Flatts (2003)
Rascal Flatts (2004)
Rascal Flatts (2005)
Rascal Flatts (2006)
Rascal Flatts (2007)
Rascal Flatts (2008)
Lady Antebellum (2009)
Lady Antebellum (2010)
Lady Antebellum (2011)
Little Big Town (2012)
Little Big Town (2013)
Little Big Town (2014)
Little Big Town (2015)
Little Big Town (2016)
Little Big Town (2017)
Old Dominion (2018)
Old Dominion (2019)
Old Dominion (2020)
Old Dominion (2021)
Old Dominion (2022)
Old Dominion (2023)

vteWillie Nelson Lifetime Achievement Award
Willie Nelson (2012)
Kenny Rogers (2013)
Johnny Cash (2015)
Dolly Parton (2016)
Kris Kristofferson (2019)
Charley Pride (2020)
Loretta Lynn (2021)
Alan Jackson (2022)

vteCountry Music Hall of Fame 1980s
Johnny Cash (1980)
Connie B. Gay (1980)
Sons of the Pioneers (1980)
Vernon Dalhart (1981)
Grant Turner (1981)
Lefty Frizzell (1982)
Roy Horton (1982)
Marty Robbins (1982)
Little Jimmy Dickens (1983)
Ralph Peer (1984)
Floyd Tillman (1984)
Flatt and Scruggs (1985)
The Duke of Paducah (1986)
Wesley Rose (1986)
Rod Brasfield (1987)
Loretta Lynn (1988)
Roy Rogers (1988)
Jack Stapp (1989)
Cliffie Stone (1989)
Hank Thompson (1989)

vteGrammy Award for Best Audio Book, Narration & Storytelling Recording1950s
The Best of the Stan Freberg Shows – Stan Freberg (1958)
Lincoln Portrait – Carl Sandburg (1959)
1960s
FDR Speaks – Robert Bialek (producer) (1960)
Humor in Music – Leonard Bernstein (1961)
The Story-Teller: A Session with Charles Laughton – Charles Laughton (1962)
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? – Edward Albee (playwright) (1963)
BBC Tribute to John F. Kennedy – That Was the Week That Was (1964)
John F. Kennedy: As We Remember Him – Goddard Lieberson (producer) (1965)
Edward R. Murrow - A Reporter Remembers, Vol. I: The War Years – Edward R. Murrow (1966)
Gallant Men – Everett Dirksen (1967)
Lonesome Cities – Rod McKuen (1968)
We Love You Call Collect – Art Linkletter & Diane Linkletter (1969)
1970s
Why I Oppose the War in Vietnam – Martin Luther King Jr. (1970)
Desiderata – Les Crane (1971)
Lenny – Bruce Botnick (producer) & the Original Broadway Cast (1972)
Jonathan Livingston Seagull – Richard Harris (1973)
Good Evening – Peter Cook and Dudley Moore (1974)
Give 'em Hell, Harry! – James Whitmore (1975)
Great American Documents – Henry Fonda, Helen Hayes, James Earl Jones, and Orson Welles (1976)
The Belle of Amherst – Julie Harris (1977)
Citizen Kane (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) – Orson Welles (1978)
Ages of Man: Readings from Shakespeare – John Gielgud (1979)
1980s
Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein – Pat Carroll (1980)
Donovan's Brain – Orson Welles (1981)
Raiders of the Lost Ark: The Movie on Record – Tom Voegeli (producer) and Various Artists (1982)
Lincoln Portrait – William Warfield (1983)
The Words of Gandhi – Ben Kingsley (1984)
Ma Rainey's Black Bottom – Mike Berniker (producer) & the Original Broadway Cast (1985)
Interviews from the Class of '55 Recording Sessions – Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Chips Moman, Ricky Nelson, Roy Orbison, Carl Perkins, and Sam Phillips (1986)
Lake Wobegon Days – Garrison Keillor (1987)
Speech by Rev. Jesse Jackson – Jesse Jackson (1988)
It's Always Something – Gilda Radner (1989)
1990s
Gracie: A Love Story – George Burns (1990)
The Civil War – Ken Burns (1991)
What You Can Do to Avoid AIDS – Earvin "Magic" Johnson and Robert O'Keefe (1992)
On the Pulse of Morning – Maya Angelou (1993)
Get in the Van – Henry Rollins (1994)
Phenomenal Woman – Maya Angelou (1995)
It Takes a Village – Hillary Clinton (1996)
Charles Kuralt's Spring – Charles Kuralt (1997)
Still Me – Christopher Reeve (1998)
The Autobiography of Martin Luther King Jr. – LeVar Burton (1999)
2000s
The Measure of a Man: A Spiritual Autobiography – Sidney Poitier, Rick Harris, and John Runnette (producers) (2000)
Q: The Autobiography of Quincy Jones – Quincy Jones, Jeffrey S. Thomas, Steven Strassman (engineers), and Elisa Shokoff (producer) (2001)
A Song Flung Up to Heaven – Maya Angelou and Charles B. Potter (producer) (2002)
Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them – Al Franken and Paul Ruben (producer) (2003)
My Life – Bill Clinton (2004)
Dreams from My Father – Barack Obama (2005)
Our Endangered Values: America's Moral Crisis – Jimmy Carter / With Ossie and Ruby – Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee (2006)
The Audacity of Hope – Barack Obama and Jacob Bronstein (producer) (2007)
An Inconvenient Truth by Al Gore – Beau Bridges, Cynthia Nixon, and Blair Underwood (2008)
Always Looking Up – Michael J. Fox (2009)
2010s
The Daily Show with Jon Stewart Presents Earth (The Audiobook) – Jon Stewart (2010)
If You Ask Me (And of Course You Won't) – Betty White (2011)
Society's Child – Janis Ian (2012)
America Again: Re-becoming the Greatness We Never Weren't – Stephen Colbert (2013)
Diary of a Mad Diva – Joan Rivers (2014)
A Full Life: Reflections at 90 – Jimmy Carter (2015)
In Such Good Company: Eleven Years of Laughter, Mayhem, and Fun in the Sandbox – Carol Burnett (2016)
The Princess Diarist – Carrie Fisher (2017)
Faith: A Journey for All – Jimmy Carter (2018)
Becoming – Michelle Obama (2019)
2020s
Blowout: Corrupted Democracy, Rogue State Russia, and the Richest, Most Destructive Industry on Earth – Rachel Maddow (2020)
Carry On: Reflections for a New Generation from John Lewis − Don Cheadle (2021)
Finding Me – Viola Davis (2022)
The Light We Carry: Overcoming in Uncertain Times – Michelle Obama (2023)

vteGrammy Award for Best Music VideoVideo of the Year  (1981−1982)
Elephant Parts – Michael Nesmith (1981)
Olivia Physical – Olivia Newton-John (1982)
1983–1986
"Girls on Film" / "Hungry Like the Wolf" – Duran Duran (1983)
"Jazzin' for Blue Jean" – David Bowie (1984)
"We Are the World" – USA for Africa (1985)
"Brothers in Arms" – Dire Straits (1986)
Best ConceptMusic Video  (1987−1988)
"Land of Confusion" – Genesis (1987)
"Fat" – "Weird Al" Yankovic (1988)
1989–2009
"Leave Me Alone" – Michael Jackson (1989)
"Opposites Attract" – Paula Abdul (1990)
"Losing My Religion" – R.E.M. (1991)
"Digging in the Dirt" – Peter Gabriel (1992)
"Steam" – Peter Gabriel (1993)
"Love Is Strong" – The Rolling Stones (1994)
"Scream" – Michael Jackson & Janet Jackson (1995)
"Free as a Bird" – The Beatles (1996)
"Got 'til It's Gone" – Janet Jackson (1997)
"Ray of Light" – Madonna (1998)
"Freak on a Leash" – Korn (1999)
"Learn to Fly" – Foo Fighters (2000)
"Weapon of Choice" – Fatboy Slim featuring Bootsy Collins (2001)
"Without Me" - Eminem (2002)
"Hurt" – Johnny Cash (2003)
"Vertigo" – U2 (2004)
"Lose Control" – Missy Elliott featuring Ciara & Fatman Scoop (2005)
"Here It Goes Again" – OK Go (2006)
"God's Gonna Cut You Down" – Johnny Cash (2007)
"Pork and Beans" – Weezer (2008)
"Boom Boom Pow" – The Black Eyed Peas (2009)
2010–present
"Bad Romance" – Lady Gaga (2010)
"Rolling in the Deep" – Adele (2011)
"We Found Love" – Rihanna featuring Calvin Harris (2012)
"Suit & Tie" – Justin Timberlake featuring Jay-Z (2013)
"Happy" – Pharrell Williams (2014)
"Bad Blood" – Taylor Swift featuring Kendrick Lamar (2015)
"Formation" – Beyoncé (2016)
"Humble" – Kendrick Lamar (2017)
"This Is America" – Childish Gambino (2018)
"Old Town Road" – Lil Nas X featuring Billy Ray Cyrus (2019)
"Brown Skin Girl" – Beyoncé, Blue Ivy & Wizkid (2020)
"Freedom" – Jon Batiste (2021)
All Too Well: The Short Film – Taylor Swift (2022)
"I'm Only Sleeping" – The Beatles (2023)

vteGrammy Legend Award
Andrew Lloyd Webber / Liza Minnelli / Willie Nelson / Smokey Robinson (1990)
Johnny Cash / Aretha Franklin / Billy Joel / Quincy Jones (1991)
Barbra Streisand (1992)
Michael Jackson (1993)
Curtis Mayfield / Frank Sinatra (1994)
Luciano Pavarotti (1998)
Elton John (1999)
Bee Gees (2003)

vteGrammy Lifetime Achievement Award1963–1990
1963
Bing Crosby
1965
Frank Sinatra
1966
Duke Ellington
1967
Ella Fitzgerald
1968
Irving Berlin
1971
Elvis Presley
1972
Louis Armstrong
Mahalia Jackson
1984
Chuck Berry
Charlie Parker
1985
Leonard Bernstein
1986
Benny Goodman
The Rolling Stones
Andrés Segovia
1987
Roy Acuff
Benny Carter
Enrico Caruso
Ray Charles
Fats Domino
Woody Herman
Billie Holiday
B.B. King
Isaac Stern
Igor Stravinsky
Arturo Toscanini
Hank Williams
1989
Fred Astaire
Pablo Casals
Dizzy Gillespie
Jascha Heifetz
Lena Horne
Leontyne Price
Bessie Smith
Art Tatum
Sarah Vaughan
1990
Nat King Cole
Miles Davis
Vladimir Horowitz
Paul McCartney
1991–2000
1991
Marian Anderson
Bob Dylan
John Lennon
Kitty Wells
1992
James Brown
John Coltrane
Jimi Hendrix
Muddy Waters
1993
Chet Atkins
Little Richard
Thelonious Monk
Bill Monroe
Pete Seeger
Fats Waller
1994
Bill Evans
Aretha Franklin
Arthur Rubinstein
1995
Patsy Cline
Peggy Lee
Henry Mancini
Curtis Mayfield
Barbra Streisand
1996
Dave Brubeck
Marvin Gaye
Georg Solti
Stevie Wonder
1997
Bobby "Blue" Bland
The Everly Brothers
Judy Garland
Stéphane Grappelli
Buddy Holly
Charles Mingus
Oscar Peterson
Frank Zappa
1998
Bo Diddley
The Mills Brothers
Roy Orbison
Paul Robeson
1999
Johnny Cash
Sam Cooke
Otis Redding
Smokey Robinson
Mel Tormé
2000
Harry Belafonte
Woody Guthrie
John Lee Hooker
Mitch Miller
Willie Nelson
2001–2010
2001
The Beach Boys
Tony Bennett
Sammy Davis Jr.
Bob Marley
The Who
2002
Count Basie
Rosemary Clooney
Perry Como
Al Green
Joni Mitchell
2003
Etta James
Johnny Mathis
Glenn Miller
Tito Puente
Simon & Garfunkel
2004
Van Cliburn
The Funk Brothers
Ella Jenkins
Sonny Rollins
Artie Shaw
Doc Watson
2005
Eddy Arnold
Art Blakey
The Carter Family
Morton Gould
Janis Joplin
Led Zeppelin
Jerry Lee Lewis
Jelly Roll Morton
Pinetop Perkins
The Staple Singers
2006
David Bowie
Cream
Merle Haggard
Robert Johnson
Jessye Norman
Richard Pryor
The Weavers
2007
Joan Baez
Booker T. & the M.G.'s
Maria Callas
Ornette Coleman
The Doors
The Grateful Dead
Bob Wills
2008
Burt Bacharach
The Band
Cab Calloway
Doris Day
Itzhak Perlman
Max Roach
Earl Scruggs
2009
Gene Autry
The Blind Boys of Alabama
The Four Tops
Hank Jones
Brenda Lee
Dean Martin
Tom Paxton
2010
Leonard Cohen
Bobby Darin
David "Honeyboy" Edwards
Michael Jackson
Loretta Lynn
André Previn
Clark Terry
2011–2020
2011
Julie Andrews
Roy Haynes
Juilliard String Quartet
The Kingston Trio
Dolly Parton
Ramones
George Beverly Shea
2012
The Allman Brothers Band
Glen Campbell
Antônio Carlos Jobim
George Jones
The Memphis Horns
Diana Ross
Gil Scott-Heron
2013
Glenn Gould
Charlie Haden
Lightnin' Hopkins
Carole King
Patti Page
Ravi Shankar
The Temptations
2014
The Beatles
Clifton Chenier
The Isley Brothers
Kraftwerk
Kris Kristofferson
Armando Manzanero
Maud Powell
2015
Bee Gees
Pierre Boulez
Buddy Guy
George Harrison
Flaco Jiménez
The Louvin Brothers
Wayne Shorter
2016
Ruth Brown
Celia Cruz
Earth, Wind & Fire
Herbie Hancock
Jefferson Airplane
Linda Ronstadt
Run-DMC
2017
Shirley Caesar
Ahmad Jamal
Charley Pride
Jimmie Rodgers
Nina Simone
Sly Stone
The Velvet Underground
2018
Hal Blaine
Neil Diamond
Emmylou Harris
Louis Jordan
The Meters
Queen
Tina Turner
2019
Black Sabbath
George Clinton and Parliament-Funkadelic
Billy Eckstine
Donny Hathaway
Julio Iglesias
Sam & Dave
Dionne Warwick
2020
Chicago
Roberta Flack
Isaac Hayes
Iggy Pop
John Prine
Public Enemy
Sister Rosetta Tharpe
2021–present
2021
Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five
Lionel Hampton
Marilyn Horne
Salt-N-Pepa
Selena
Talking Heads
2022
Bonnie Raitt
2023
Bobby McFerrin
Nirvana
Ma Rainey
Slick Rick
Nile Rodgers
The Supremes
Ann Wilson and Nancy Wilson
2024
Laurie Anderson
The Clark Sisters
Gladys Knight
N.W.A
Donna Summer
Tammy Wynette

vteKennedy Center Honorees (1990s)1990
Dizzy Gillespie
Katharine Hepburn
Risë Stevens
Jule Styne
Billy Wilder
1991
Roy Acuff
Betty Comden and Adolph Green
Fayard and Harold Nicholas
Gregory Peck
Robert Shaw
1992
Lionel Hampton
Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward
Ginger Rogers
Mstislav Rostropovich
Paul Taylor
1993
Johnny Carson
Arthur Mitchell
Sir Georg Solti
Stephen Sondheim
Marion Williams
1994
Kirk Douglas
Aretha Franklin
Morton Gould
Harold Prince
Pete Seeger
1995
Jacques d'Amboise
Marilyn Horne
B.B. King
Sidney Poitier
Neil Simon
1996
Edward Albee
Benny Carter
Johnny Cash
Jack Lemmon
Maria Tallchief
1997
Lauren Bacall
Bob Dylan
Charlton Heston
Jessye Norman
Edward Villella
1998
Bill Cosby
Fred Ebb and John Kander
Willie Nelson
André Previn
Shirley Temple Black
1999
Victor Borge
Sean Connery
Judith Jamison
Jason Robards
Stevie Wonder

Complete list
1970s
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s
2020s

vteNational Medal of Arts recipients (2000s)2000
Maya Angelou
Eddy Arnold
Mikhail Baryshnikov
Benny Carter
Chuck Close
Horton Foote
Lewis Manilow
National Public Radio, cultural programming division
Claes Oldenburg
Itzhak Perlman
Harold Prince
Barbra Streisand
2001
Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation
Rudolfo Anaya
Johnny Cash
Kirk Douglas
Helen Frankenthaler
Judith Jamison
Yo-Yo Ma
Mike Nichols
2002
Florence Knoll Bassett
Trisha Brown
Philippe de Montebello
Uta Hagen
Lawrence Halprin
Al Hirschfeld
George Jones
Ming Cho Lee
William "Smokey" Robinson
2003
Austin City Limits
Beverly Cleary
Rafe Esquith
Suzanne Farrell
Buddy Guy
Ron Howard
Tabernacle Choir
Leonard Slatkin
George Strait
Tommy Tune
2004
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Ray Bradbury
Carlisle Floyd
Frederick Hart
Anthony Hecht
John Ruthven
Vincent Scully
Twyla Tharp
2005
Louis Auchincloss
James DePreist
Paquito D'Rivera
Robert Duvall
Leonard Garment
Ollie Johnston
Wynton Marsalis
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
Tina Ramirez
Dolly Parton
2006
William Bolcom
Cyd Charisse
Roy DeCarava
Wilhelmina Holladay
Interlochen Center for the Arts
Erich Kunzel
Preservation Hall Jazz Band
Gregory Rabassa
Viktor Schreckengost
Ralph Stanley
2007
Morten Lauridsen
N. Scott Momaday
Craig Noel
Roy Neuberger
Les Paul
Henry Z. Steinway
George Tooker
Lionel Hampton Jazz Festival (University of Idaho)
Andrew Wyeth
2008
Stan Lee
Richard M. Sherman
Robert B. Sherman
Olivia de Havilland
Hank Jones
Jesús Moroles
Ford's Theatre Society
Fisk Jubilee Singers, (Fisk University)
José Limón Dance Foundation
The Presser Foundation
2009
Bob Dylan
Clint Eastwood
Milton Glaser
Maya Lin
Rita Moreno
Jessye Norman
Joseph P. Riley Jr.
Frank Stella
Michael Tilson Thomas
John Williams
Oberlin Conservatory of Music
School of American Ballet

Complete list
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s

vteRock and Roll Hall of Fame – Class of 1992Performers
Bobby Bland
Booker T. & the M.G.'s
Steve Cropper, Donald "Duck" Dunn, Al Jackson Jr., Booker T. Jones, Lewie Steinberg
Johnny Cash
The Isley Brothers
Ernie Isley, Marvin Isley, O'Kelly Isley Jr., Ronald Isley, Rudolph Isley, Chris Jasper
The Jimi Hendrix Experience
Jimi Hendrix, Mitch Mitchell, Noel Redding
Sam & Dave
Sam Moore, Dave Prater
The Yardbirds
Jeff Beck, Eric Clapton, Chris Dreja, Jim McCarty, Jimmy Page, Keith Relf, Paul Samwell-Smith
Early influences
Elmore James
Professor Longhair
Non-performers(Ahmet Ertegun Award)
Leo Fender
Bill Graham
Doc Pomus

vteThe Highwaymen
Johnny Cash
Waylon Jennings
Kris Kristofferson
Willie Nelson
Studio albums
Highwayman
Highwayman 2
The Road Goes On Forever
Singles
"Highwayman"
"Desperados Waiting for a Train"
"Silver Stallion"
"Born and Raised in Black and White"
"It Is What It Is"

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataItalyAustraliaCzech RepublicSpainNetherlandsNorwayLatviaCroatiaGreeceKoreaSwedenPolandIsraelFinlandCataloniaBelgiumAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy AwardsPeopleBMLOTroveDeutsche BiographieOtherIdRefNARASNAC2



