American singer (born 1960)
This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Johnny Van Zant" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)


Johnny Van ZantVan Zant in 2012Background informationBirth nameJohn Roy Van ZantBorn (1960-02-27) February 27, 1960 (age 64)Jacksonville, Florida, U.S.GenresSouthern rock, countryOccupationSingerYears active1976–presentMember ofLynyrd SkynyrdFormerly ofVan ZantMusical artist
John Roy Van Zant (born February 27, 1960), also known as Johnny Van Zant, is an American singer and the current lead vocalist of Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd. He is the younger brother of Lynyrd Skynyrd co-founder and former lead vocalist Ronnie Van Zant, and of the 38 Special founder Donnie Van Zant.


Biography[edit]
During the 1970s, Van Zant performed with his first band, the Austin Nickels Band. They later changed their name to The Johnny Van Zant Band releasing their debut solo album, No More Dirty Deals, in 1980. Early members of the Johnny Van Zant Band consisted of Van Zant on lead vocals, Robbie Gay on guitar, Danny Clausman, on bass, Erik Lundgren on lead guitar, Robbie Morris, drums and Joan Hecht (previously Joan Cusimano) and Nancy Henderson on background vocals. Van Zant released three more solo albums between 1981 and 1985, before taking a break from the music business.
He became lead vocalist and chief songwriter for the reunited Lynyrd Skynyrd in 1987 and continues to record and perform with them today. He released another solo album, Brickyard Road, in 1990, which featured the popular title track, which was a #1 hit on the U.S. Mainstream Rock Tracks chart for three weeks. He also records and performs with his brother, Donnie, as Van Zant since 1998. Van Zant and Lynyrd Skynyrd performed in Arizona on April 9, 2022, during Arizona Bike Week at WestWorld of Scottsdale. He stated that original member Gary Rossington was recovering and still needed prayers.
In May 2006, less than one day before he was to perform at KSAN-FM 107.7 The Bone's Bone Bash 7, Van Zant underwent emergency surgery to have his appendix removed. Treated at Stanford University Medical Center in Palo Alto, California, after reporting pain to a doctor earlier in the day. The incident forced the band to cancel three U.S. shows.[1]
Van Zant is a fan of the Jacksonville Jaguars. He recorded a video, along with remaining members of Lynyrd Skynyrd, that is played at every Jaguars home game on the TIAA Bank Field video board.[2]
According to Skynyrd's website, Van Zant was again hospitalized on August 6, 2011, at the Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, due to complications from a previous surgery. According to the website, Van Zant had a "surgical site" infected with cellulitus which required both hospitalization and IV/Antibiotic treatment. He began displaying signs of a staph infection and other symptoms related to the infection. His subsequent illness resulted in a number of scheduled performances being cancelled.[3]

Discography[edit]
Van Zant performing with Lynyrd Skynyrd in 2012


Title
Release
Band


No More Dirty Deals
1980
The Johnny Van Zant Band


Round Two
1981


The Last of the Wild Ones
1982


Van Zant
1985


Brickyard Road
1990
Solo


Lynyrd Skynyrd 1991
1991
Lynyrd Skynyrd


The Last Rebel
1993


Endangered Species
1994


Twenty
1997


Edge of Forever
1998


Brother to Brother
Van Zant


Van Zant II
2001


Vicious Cycle
2003
Lynyrd Skynyrd


Get Right with the Man
2005
Van Zant


My Kind of Country
2007


God & Guns
2009
Lynyrd Skynyrd


Last of a Dyin' Breed
2012
Lynyrd Skynyrd

Music videos[edit]


Year

Video


1990

"Brickyard Road"





^ Notice of Johnny Van Zant surgery, bbc.co.uk; accessed August 11, 2015.

^ "Jaguars and Skynyrd a Natural Fit". Jacksonville Sports News, Sam Kouvaris SamSportsline.com. August 31, 2018. Retrieved May 11, 2022.

^ Newton, Steve (August 11, 2011). "Lynyrd Skynyrd's Johnny Van Zant hospitalized, numerous shows cancelled | Georgia Straight Vancouver's News & Entertainment Weekly". The Georgia Straight. Archived from the original on March 5, 2016. Retrieved February 6, 2022.


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Johnny Van Zant.

Lynyrd Skynyrd website
vteLynyrd Skynyrd
Rickey Medlocke
Johnny Van Zant
Michael Cartellone
Mark Matejka
Peter Keys
Keith Christopher
Ronnie Van Zant
Allen Collins
Gary Rossington
Bob Burns
Larry Junstrom
Greg T. Walker
Leon Wilkeson
Billy Powell
Ed King
Artimus Pyle
Steve Gaines
Randall Hall
Kurt Custer
Mike Estes
Owen Hale
Hughie Thomasson
Jeff McAllister
Kenny Aronoff
Ean Evans
Robert Kearns
Johnny Colt
Studio albums
(Pronounced 'Lĕh-'nérd 'Skin-'nérd)
Second Helping
Nuthin' Fancy
Gimme Back My Bullets
Street Survivors
Lynyrd Skynyrd 1991
The Last Rebel
Endangered Species
Twenty
Edge of Forever
Christmas Time Again
Vicious Cycle
God & Guns
Last of a Dyin' Breed
Live albums
One More from the Road
Southern by the Grace of God
Lyve from Steel Town
Lynyrd Skynyrd Lyve: The Vicious Cycle Tour
Live from Freedom Hall
Last of the Street Survivors Farewell Tour Lyve!
Compilations
Skynyrd's First and... Last
Gold & Platinum
Best of the Rest
Legend
Skynyrd's Innyrds
Lynyrd Skynyrd (box set)
A Retrospective
What's Your Name
Old Time Greats
The Essential Lynyrd Skynyrd
Skynyrd's First: The Complete Muscle Shoals Album
20th Century Masters: The Best of Lynyrd Skynyrd
Solo Flytes
All Time Greatest Hits
Collectybles
Then and Now
Thyrty
Then and Now Volume Two
Greatest Hits
Icon
Video
Freebird... The Movie
Lyve from Steel Town
Lynyrd Skynyrd Lyve: The Vicious Cycle Tour
Live from Freedom Hall
Singles
"Gimme Three Steps" / "Mr. Banker"
"Don't Ask Me No Questions" / "Take Your Time"
"Sweet Home Alabama"
"Free Bird"
"Saturday Night Special"
"Double Trouble"
"What's Your Name"
"That Smell"
"Truck Drivin' Man"
"You Got That Right"
"Preacher Man"
"Red White & Blue"
Other songs
"Need All My Friends"
"Tuesday's Gone"
"Simple Man"
Tours
Street Survivors Tour
Lynyrd Skynyrd Tribute Tour
Lynyrd Skynyrd 1991 Tour
Edge of Forever Tour
The Last of the Street Survivors Farewell Tour
Spin-off bands
Rossington Collins Band
The Rossington Band
Allen Collins Band
Artimus Pyle Band
Van Zant
Related articles
Discography
Members
Skynyrd Frynds
Plane crash
Ronnie Van Zant Memorial Park
Leonard Skinner
"All Summer Long"

vteVan Zant
Donnie Van Zant
Johnny Van Zant
Studio albums
Van Zant II
Get Right with the Man
My Kind of Country
Notable singles
"Help Somebody"
"Nobody Gonna Tell Me What to Do"
Related articles
Lynyrd Skynyrd
38 Special
Ronnie Van Zant

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicArtistsMusicBrainz



