American singer (born 1946)


Linda RonstadtRonstadt in 1976Background informationBirth nameLinda Maria Ronstadt[1]Born (1946-07-15) July 15, 1946 (age 78)Tucson, Arizona, U.S.GenresRockpopfolkprogressive country[2]LatinOccupations
Singer
musician
record producer
actress
InstrumentsVocalsguitarDiscographyAlbumssinglesperformancesYears active1965–2011LabelsCapitolAsylumElektraVerveRhinoWebsitelindaronstadt.comMusical artist
Linda Maria Ronstadt (born July 15, 1946) is an American singer who has performed and recorded in diverse genres including rock, country, light opera, the Great American Songbook, and Latin music.
Ronstadt has earned 11 Grammy Awards,[3] three American Music Awards, two Academy of Country Music awards, an Emmy Award, and an ALMA Award. Many of her albums have been certified gold, platinum or multiplatinum in the United States and internationally. She has also earned nominations for a Tony Award and a Golden Globe award. She was awarded the Latin Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award by the Latin Recording Academy in 2011 and also awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award by the Recording Academy in 2016. She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in April 2014.[4] On July 28, 2014, she was awarded the National Medal of Arts and Humanities.[5][16] In 2019, she received a star jointly with Dolly Parton and Emmylou Harris on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for their work as the group Trio.[17][18] Ronstadt was among five honorees who received the 2019 Kennedy Center Honors for lifetime artistic achievements.
Ronstadt has released 24 studio albums and 15 compilation or greatest hits albums. She charted 38 US Billboard Hot 100 singles. Twenty-one of those singles reached the top 40, ten reached the top 10, and one reached number one ("You're No Good"). Ronstadt also charted in the UK; two of her duets, "Somewhere Out There" with James Ingram and "Don't Know Much" with Aaron Neville, peaked at numbers 8 and 2 respectively, and the single "Blue Bayou" reached number 35 on the UK Singles Chart.[19][20] She has charted 36 albums, ten top-10 albums, and three number one albums on the US Billboard albums chart.[citation needed] Ronstadt has lent her voice to over 120 albums, collaborating with artists in many genres, including Dolly Parton, Emmylou Harris, Bette Midler, Billy Eckstine,[21] Frank Zappa, Carla Bley (Escalator Over the Hill), Rosemary Clooney, Flaco Jiménez, Philip Glass, Warren Zevon, Gram Parsons, Neil Young, Paul Simon, Earl Scruggs, Johnny Cash, and Nelson Riddle.[22] Christopher Loudon, of Jazz Times, wrote in 2004 that Ronstadt is "blessed with arguably the most sterling set of pipes of her generation".[23]
Ronstadt reduced her activity after 2000 when she felt her singing voice deteriorating.[24] She released her final solo album in 2004 and her final collaborative album in 2006, and performed her final live concert in 2009. She announced her retirement in 2011 and revealed shortly afterward that she is no longer able to sing, as a result of a degenerative condition initially diagnosed as Parkinson's disease but later determined to be progressive supranuclear palsy.[24][a] Since that time Ronstadt has continued to make public appearances, going on a number of public speaking tours in the 2010s. She published an autobiography, Simple Dreams: A Musical Memoir,[25] in September 2013. A documentary based on her memoirs, Linda Ronstadt: The Sound of My Voice, was released in 2019.


Early life[edit]
Linda Maria Ronstadt was born in Tucson, Arizona on July 15, 1946,[26] the third of four children of Gilbert Ronstadt (1911–1995), a prosperous machinery merchant who ran the F. Ronstadt Co.,[27] and Ruth Mary (née Copeman) Ronstadt (1914–1982), a homemaker.[28]
Ronstadt had a Roman Catholic upbringing[29] and was raised on the family's 10-acre (4 ha) ranch with her siblings Peter (who served as Tucson's chief of police from 1981 to 1991), Michael, and Gretchen. The family was featured in Family Circle magazine in 1953.[30]

Ronstadt family history[edit]
Ronstadt's father came from a pioneering Arizona ranching family[31] and was of Mexican descent with a German male ancestor.[32] The family's influence on and contributions to Arizona's history, including wagon making, commerce, pharmacies, and music, are documented in the library of the University of Arizona.[33] Her great-grandfather, the engineer Friedrich August Ronstadt (who went by Federico Augusto Ronstadt), immigrated first to Sonora, Mexico, and later to the Southwest (at that time a part of Mexico) in the 1840s from Hanover, Germany. He married Margarita Redondo y Vásquez, a Mexican citizen and eventually settled in Tucson.[34][35] In 1991, the City of Tucson opened its central transit terminal on March 16 and dedicated it to Linda's grandfather, Federico José María Ronstadt, a local pioneer businessman; he was a wagon maker whose early contribution to the city's mobility included six mule-drawn streetcars, delivered in 1903–04.[36]
Ronstadt's mother Ruth Mary, of German, English, and Dutch ancestry, was raised in Flint, Michigan. Ruth Mary's father, Lloyd Groff Copeman, a prolific inventor and holder of nearly 700 patents, invented an early form of the electric toaster, many refrigerator devices, the grease gun, the first electric stove, and an early form of the microwave oven.[37] His flexible rubber ice cube tray earned him millions of dollars in royalties.[38]

Career summary[edit]


Everybody has their own level of doing their music. ... Mine just happened to resonate over the years, in one way and another, with a significant enough number of people so that I could do it professionally.


—Linda Ronstadt[39]

Establishing her professional career in the mid-1960s at the forefront of California's emerging folk rock and country rock movements – genres which defined post-1960s rock music – Ronstadt joined forces with Bobby Kimmel and Kenny Edwards and became the lead singer of a folk-rock trio, the Stone Poneys. Later, as a solo artist, she released Hand Sown ... Home Grown in 1969, which has been described as the first alternative country record by a female recording artist.[40] Although fame eluded her during these years, Ronstadt actively toured with the Doors, Neil Young, Jackson Browne, and others, appeared numerous times on television shows, and began to contribute her singing to albums by other artists.
With the release of chart-topping albums such as Heart Like a Wheel, Simple Dreams, and Living in the USA, Ronstadt became the first female "arena class" rock star. She set records as one of the top-grossing concert artists of the decade.[40][41][42][43] Referred to as the "First Lady of Rock"[31][44] and the "Queen of Rock", Ronstadt was voted the Top Female Pop Singer of the 1970s.[31] Her rock-and-roll image was as famous as her music; she appeared six times on the cover of Rolling Stone and on the covers of Newsweek and Time.
In the 1980s, Ronstadt performed on Broadway and received a Tony nomination for her performance in The Pirates of Penzance,[45] teamed with the composer Philip Glass, recorded traditional music, and collaborated with the conductor Nelson Riddle, an event at that time viewed as an original and unorthodox move for a rock-and-roll artist. This venture paid off,[46] and Ronstadt remained one of the music industry's best-selling acts throughout the 1980s, with multi-platinum-selling albums such as Mad Love; What's New; Canciones de Mi Padre; and Cry Like a Rainstorm, Howl Like the Wind. She continued to tour, collaborate, and record celebrated albums, such as Winter Light and Hummin' to Myself, until her retirement in 2011.[47] Most of Ronstadt's albums are certified gold, platinum, or multi-platinum.[48][49] Having sold in excess of 100 million records worldwide[50] and setting records as one of the top-grossing concert performers for over a decade, Ronstadt was the most successful female singer of the 1970s and stands as one of the most successful female recording artists in U.S. history. She opened many doors for women in rock and roll and other musical genres by championing songwriters and musicians, pioneering her chart success onto the concert circuit, and being in the vanguard of many musical movements.[40]

Career overview[edit]
Early influences[edit]


I don't record (any type of genre of music) that I didn't hear in my family's living room by the time I was 10. It just is my rule that I don't break because ... I can't do it authentically ... I really think that you're just hard-wiring (synapses) in your brain up until the age of maybe 12 or 10, and there are certain things you can't learn in an authentic way after that.


—Linda Ronstadt[51]

Ronstadt's early family life was filled with music and tradition, which influenced the stylistic and musical choices she later made in her career. Growing up, she listened to many types of music, including Mexican music, which was sung by her entire family and was a staple in her childhood.[52]
Ronstadt has remarked that all the styles she has recorded on her own records – rock and roll, rhythm and blues, gospel, opera, country, choral, and mariachi – are music she heard her family sing in their living room or heard played on the radio by the age of 10. She credits her mother for her appreciation of Gilbert and Sullivan and her father for introducing her to the traditional pop and Great American Songbook repertoire that she would, in turn, help reintroduce to an entire generation.[51][53]



If I didn't hear it on the radio, or if my dad wasn't playing it on the piano, or if my brother wasn't playing it on the guitar or singing it in his boys' choir, or my mother and sister weren't practicing a Broadway tune or a Gilbert and Sullivan song, then I can't do it today. It's as simple as that. All of my influences and my authenticity are a direct result of the music played in that Tucson living room.[54]


—Linda Ronstadt

Early on, her singing style had been influenced by singers such as Lola Beltrán and Édith Piaf; she has called their singing and rhythms "more like Greek music ... It's sort of like 6/8 time signature ... very hard driving and very intense."[55] She also drew influence from country singer Hank Williams.
She has said that "all girl singers" eventually "have to curtsy to Ella Fitzgerald and Billie Holiday".[31] Of Maria Callas, Ronstadt says, "There's no one in her league. That's it. Period. I learn more ... about singing rock n roll from listening to Maria Callas records than I ever would from listening to pop music for a month of Sundays. ... She's the greatest chick singer ever."[56] She admires Callas for her musicianship and her attempts to push 20th-century singing, particularly opera, back into the bel canto "natural style of singing".[57]
A self-described product of American radio of the 1950s and 1960s, Ronstadt is a fan of its eclectic and diverse music programming.[53]

Beginning of professional career[edit]
At age 14, Ronstadt formed a folk trio with her brother Peter and sister Gretchen. The group played coffeehouses, fraternity houses, and other small venues, billing themselves as "the Union City Ramblers" and "the Three Ronstadts", and they even recorded themselves at a Tucson studio under the name "the New Union Ramblers".[58] Their repertoire included the music they grew up on – folk, country, bluegrass, and Mexican.[59] But increasingly, Ronstadt wanted to make a union of folk music and rock 'n' roll,[43] and in 1964, after a semester at the University of Arizona,[60] the 18-year-old decided to move to Los Angeles.[61][62][63]

The Stone Poneys[edit]
Main article: Stone Poneys
Ronstadt visited a friend from Tucson, Bobby Kimmel, in Los Angeles during Easter break from college in 1964, and later that year, shortly before her eighteenth birthday,[61] decided to move there permanently to form a band with him.[62] Kimmel had already begun co-writing folk-rock songs with guitarist-songwriter Kenny Edwards, and eventually the three of them were signed by Nik Venet to Capitol in the summer of 1966 as "the Stone Poneys". The trio released three albums in a 15-month period in 1967–68: The Stone Poneys; Evergreen, Volume 2; and Linda Ronstadt, Stone Poneys and Friends, Vol. III. The band is widely known for their hit single "Different Drum" (written by Michael Nesmith prior to his joining the Monkees), which reached number 13 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart as well as number 12 in Cashbox magazine. Nearly 50 years later, the song remains one of Ronstadt's most popular recordings.[64]

Solo career[edit]
Still contractually obligated to Capitol Records, Ronstadt released her first solo album, Hand Sown ... Home Grown, in 1969. It has been called the first alternative country record by a female recording artist.[40] During this same period, she contributed to the Music from Free Creek "super session" project.
Ronstadt provided the vocals for some commercials during this period, including one for Remington electric razors, in which a multitracked Ronstadt and Frank Zappa claimed that the electric razor "cleans you, thrills you ... may even keep you from getting busted".[65]
Ronstadt's second solo album, Silk Purse, was released in March 1970. Recorded entirely in Nashville, it was produced by Elliot Mazer, whom Ronstadt chose on the advice of Janis Joplin, who had worked with her on the Cheap Thrills album.[66] The Silk Purse album cover showed Ronstadt in a muddy pigpen, while the back and inside cover depicted her onstage wearing bright red. Ronstadt has stated that she was not pleased with the album, although it provided her with her first solo hit, the multi-format single "Long, Long Time", and earned her first Grammy nomination (for Best Contemporary Vocal Performance/Female).

Touring[edit]


Judy Henske, who was the then reigning queen of folk music, said to me at The Troubadour, "Honey, in this town there are four sexes. Men, women, homosexuals, and girl singers."


—Linda Ronstadt[67]

Soon after she went solo in the late 1960s, one of her first backing bands was the pioneering country-rock band Swampwater, which combined Cajun and swamp rock elements in their music. Its members included Cajun fiddler Gib Guilbeau and John Beland, who later joined the Flying Burrito Brothers,[68] as well as Stan Pratt, Thad Maxwell, and Eric White, brother of Clarence White of the Byrds. Swampwater went on to back Ronstadt during TV appearances on The Johnny Cash Show[69] and The Mike Douglas Show, and at the Big Sur Folk Festival.[70]
Another backing band included Don Henley, Glenn Frey, Bernie Leadon, and Randy Meisner, who went on to form the Eagles. They toured with her for a short period in 1971 and played on Linda Ronstadt, her self-titled third album, from which a failed single, Ronstadt's version of Browne's "Rock Me on the Water", was drawn. At this stage, Ronstadt began working with producer and boyfriend John Boylan. She said, "As soon as I started working with John Boylan, I started co-producing myself. I was always a part of my productions. But I always needed a producer who would carry out my whims."[58] Also in 1971, Ronstadt began talking with David Geffen about moving from Capitol Records to Geffen's Asylum Records label.[71]
In 1975, Ronstadt performed shows with Jackson Browne, the Eagles, and Toots and the Maytals.[72] In these shows she would sing lead vocal on numerous songs including the Eagles' "Desperado" while singing background and playing tambourine and acoustic guitar on others.[73]
Several years before Ronstadt became what author Gerri Hirshey called the first "arena-class rock diva" with "hugely anticipated tours"[41] she began her solo career touring the North American concert circuit.
Being on the road took its toll both emotionally and professionally. In a 1976 Rolling Stone interview with Cameron Crowe, Ronstadt said, "they haven't invented a word for that loneliness that everybody goes through on the road. The world is tearing by you, real fast, and all these people are looking at you. ... People see me in my 'girl-singer' suit."[74] In 1974 she told Peter Knobler in Crawdaddy, "People are always taking advantage of you; everybody that's interested in you has got an angle."[75]
There were few "girl singers" on the rock circuit at the time, and they were relegated to "groupie level when in a crowd of a bunch of rock and roll guys", a status Ronstadt avoided.[76] Relating to men on a professional level as fellow musicians led to competition, insecurity, bad romances, and a series of boyfriend-managers. At the time, she admired singers like Maria Muldaur for not sacrificing their femininity but says she felt enormous self-imposed pressure to compete with "the boys" at every level.[62] She noted in a 1969 interview in Fusion magazine that it was difficult being a single "chick singer" with an all-male backup band.[76] According to her, it was difficult to get a band of backing musicians because of their ego problem of being labeled sidemen for a female singer.[77]

Collaborations with Peter Asher[edit]


In general when you fall in love with an artist and their music, the plan is a fairly simple one. .. get people to go and see them, and make a record that you think properly presents their music to the public and some of which you can get on the radio.


—Peter Asher, on collaborating with Ronstadt[39]

Ronstadt began her fourth solo album, Don't Cry Now, in 1973, with Boylan (who had negotiated her contract with Asylum Records) and John David "JD" Souther producing most of the album's tracks. But needing someone willing to work with her as an equal, Ronstadt asked Peter Asher, who came highly recommended to her by James Taylor's sister Kate Taylor, to help produce two of them: "Sail Away" and "I Believe in You".[78]
The album featured Ronstadt's first country hit, "Silver Threads and Golden Needles", which she had first recorded on Hand Sown ... Home Grown – this time hitting the Country Top 20.
With the release of Don't Cry Now, Ronstadt took on her biggest gig to date as the opening act on Neil Young's Time Fades Away tour, playing for larger crowds than ever before. Backstage at a concert in Texas, Chris Hillman introduced her to Emmylou Harris, telling them, "You two could be good friends,"[79] which soon occurred, resulting in frequent collaborations over the following years. Meanwhile, the album became Ronstadt's most successful up to that time, selling 300,000 copies by the end of 1974.[78]
Asher turned out to be more collaborative, and more on the same page with her musically, than any producer she had worked with previously.[58] Ronstadt's professional relationship with Asher allowed her to take command and effectively delegate responsibilities in the recording studio.[78] Although hesitant at first to work with her because of her reputation for being a "woman of strong opinions (who) knew what she wanted to do (with her career)", he nonetheless agreed to become her full-time producer[80] and remained in that role through the late 1980s. Asher attributed the long-term success of his working relationship with Ronstadt to the fact that he was the first person to manage and produce her with whom there was a solely professional relationship. "It must be a lot harder to have objective conversations about someone's career when it's someone you sleep with," he said.[78]
Asher executive-produced a tribute CD called Listen to Me: Buddy Holly, released on September 6, 2011, on which Ronstadt's 1976 version of Buddy Holly's "That'll Be The Day" appears among newly recorded versions of Holly's songs by various artists.[81]

Vocal styles[edit]


I grew up singing Mexican music, and that's based on indigenous Mexican rhythms. Mexican music also has an overlay of West African music, based on huapango drums, and it's kind of like a 6/8 time signature, but it really is a very syncopated 6/8. And that's how I attack vocals.


—Linda Ronstadt, on reconciling her musical instincts with rock 'n' roll.[58]

Ronstadt captured the sounds of country music and the rhythms of ranchera music – which she likened in 1968 to "Mexican bluegrass" – and redirected them into her rock 'n' roll and some of her pop music. Many of these rhythms and sounds were part of her Southwestern roots.[82] Likewise, a country sound and style, a fusion of country music and rock 'n' roll called country rock, started to exert its influence on mainstream pop music around the late 1960s, and it became an emerging movement Ronstadt helped form and commercialize. However, as early as 1970, Ronstadt was being criticized by music "purists" for her "brand of music" which crossed many genres. Country Western Stars magazine wrote in 1970 that "Rock people thought she was too gentle, folk people thought she was too pop, and pop people didn't quite understand where she was at, but Country people really loved Linda." She never categorized herself and stuck to her genre-crossing brand of music.[83]

Interpretive singer[edit]
Ronstadt is considered an "interpreter of her times",[84] and has earned praise for her courage to put her "stamp" on many of her songs.[85] Ronstadt herself has indicated that some of her 1970s hits were recorded under considerable pressure to create commercially successful recordings, and that she prefers many of her songs that were non-hit album tracks.[58] An infrequent songwriter, Ronstadt co-composed only three songs over her long career. 
Ronstadt's natural vocal range spans several octaves from contralto to soprano, and occasionally she will showcase this entire range within a single work. Ronstadt was the first female artist in popular music history to accumulate four consecutive platinum albums (fourteen certified million selling, to date). As for the singles, Rolling Stone pointed out that a whole generation, "but for her, might never have heard the work of artists such as Buddy Holly, Elvis Costello, and Chuck Berry."[86]



Music is meant to lighten your load. By singing it ... you release (the sadness). And release yourself ... an exercise in exorcism. ... You exorcise that emotion ... and diminish sadness and feel joy.


—Linda Ronstadt[87]

Others have argued that Ronstadt had the same generational effect with her Great American Songbook music, exposing a whole new generation to the music of the 1920s and 1930s – music which was pushed aside because of the advent of rock 'n' roll. When interpreting, Ronstadt said she "sticks to what the music demands", in terms of lyrics.[88] Explaining that rock and roll music is part of her culture, she says that the songs she sang after her rock and roll hits were part of her soul. "The (Mariachi music) was my father's side of the soul," she was quoted as saying in a 1998 interview she gave at her Tucson home. "My mother's side of my soul was the Nelson Riddle stuff. And I had to do them both to reestablish who I was."[89]
In the 1974 book Rock 'N' Roll Woman, author Katherine Orloff writes that Ronstadt's "own musical preferences run strongly to rhythm and blues, the type of music she most frequently chooses to listen to ... (and) her goal is to ... be soulful too. With this in mind, Ronstadt fuses country and rock into a special union."[62]
By this stage of her career, Ronstadt had established her niche in the field of country-rock. Along with other musicians such as the Flying Burrito Brothers, Emmylou Harris, Gram Parsons, Swampwater, Neil Young, and the Eagles, she helped free country music from stereotypes and showed rockers that country was okay. However, she stated that she was being pushed hard into singing more rock and roll.[79]

Most successful female singer of the 1970s[edit]
Ronstadt with producer Peter Asher and her band, 1976
1975 concert poster from Anaheim, CA featuring Linda Ronstadt, The Eagles (band), Jackson Browne, and Toots and the Maytals with whom Ronstadt toured on several dates
Author Andrew Greeley, in his book God in Popular Culture, described Ronstadt as "the most successful and certainly the most durable and most gifted woman Rock singer of her era."[90] Signaling her wide popularity as a concert artist, outside of the singles charts and the recording studio, Dirty Linen magazine describes her as the "first true woman rock 'n' roll superstar ... (selling) out stadiums with a string of mega-successful albums."[40] Cashbox gave Ronstadt a Special Decade Award,[91] as the top-selling female singer of the 1970s.[31]
Her album covers, posters, magazine covers – her entire rock 'n' roll image – were as famous as her music.[39] By the end of the decade, the singer whom the Chicago Sun Times described as the "Dean of the 1970s school of female rock singers"[85] became what Redbook called "the most successful female rock star in the world."[92] "Female" was the important qualifier, according to Time magazine, which labeled her "a rarity ... to (have survived) ... in the shark-infested deeps of rock."[93]
Although Ronstadt had been a cult favorite on the music scene for several years, 1975 was "remembered in the music biz as the year when 29-year-old Linda Ronstadt belatedly happened."[94]
With the release of Heart Like a Wheel‍—‌named after one of the album's songs, written by Anna McGarrigle‍—‌Ronstadt reached number 1 on the Billboard 200 chart;[95] it was also the first of four number 1 Country Albums, and the disc was certified double-platinum[96] (over two million copies sold in the U.S.). In many instances, her own interpretations were more successful than the original recordings, and many times new songwriters were discovered by a larger audience as a result of her interpretation and recording. Ronstadt had major success interpreting songs from a diverse spectrum of artists.
Heart Like a Wheel's first single release, "You're No Good" – a rockified version of an R&B song written by Clint Ballard, Jr. that Ronstadt had initially resisted because Andrew Gold's guitar tracks sounded too much like a "Beatles song" to her[78] – climbed to number 1 on both the Billboard and Cash Box Pop singles charts.[97] The album's second single release, "When Will I Be Loved" – an uptempo country-rock version of a Top 10 Everly Brothers song – hit number 1 in Cashbox and number 2 in Billboard.[97] The song was also Ronstadt's first number 1 country hit.[97]
The album's critical and commercial success was due to a fine presentation of country and rock, with Heart Like a Wheel her first of many major commercial successes that would set her on the path to being one of the best-selling female artists of all time. Ronstadt won her first Grammy Award[98] for Best Country Vocal Performance/Female for "I Can't Help It (If I'm Still in Love with You)" which was originally a 1940s hit by Hank Williams. Ronstadt's interpretation peaked at number 2 on the country chart. The album itself was nominated for the Album of the Year Grammy.
Rolling Stone put Ronstadt on its cover in March 1975. It was the first of six Rolling Stone covers shot by photographer Annie Leibovitz. It included her as the featured artist with a full photo layout and an article by Ben Fong-Torres, discussing Ronstadt's many struggling years in rock n roll, as well as her home life and what it was like to be a woman on tour in a decidedly all-male environment.
In September 1975, Ronstadt's album Prisoner in Disguise was released. It quickly climbed into the Top Five on the Billboard Album Chart and sold over a million copies.[96] It became her second in a row to go platinum, "a grand slam" in the same year (Ronstadt would eventually become the first female artist in popular music history to have three consecutive platinum albums and would ultimately go on to have eight consecutive platinum albums, and then another six between 1983 and 1990).[94] The disc's first single release was "Love Is A Rose". It was climbing the pop and country charts but "Heat Wave", a rockified version of the 1963 hit by Martha and the Vandellas, was receiving considerable airplay. Asylum pulled the "Love Is a Rose" single and issued "Heat Wave" with "Love Is a Rose" on the B-side. "Heat Wave" hit the Top Five on Billboard's Hot 100 while "Love Is A Rose" hit the Top Five on Billboard's country chart.

Ronstadt on the cover of Cash Box; November 13, 1976
In 1976, Ronstadt reached the Top 3 of Billboard's Album Chart and won her second career Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for her third consecutive platinum[96] album Hasten Down the Wind. The album featured a sexy, revealing cover shot and showcased Ronstadt the singer-songwriter, who composed two of its songs, "Try Me Again" (co-authored with Andrew Gold) and "Lo Siento Mi Vida". It also included an interpretation of Willie Nelson's ballad "Crazy", which became a Top 10 Country hit for Ronstadt in early 1977.
At the end of 1977, Ronstadt surpassed the success of Heart Like a Wheel with her album Simple Dreams, which, after spending nine consecutive weeks at number 2 behind Fleetwood Mac's Rumours,[99] displaced it, and held the number 1 position for five consecutive weeks on the Billboard 200 chart.[100] It sold over 31⁄2 million copies in less than a year in the U.S. alone – a record for a female artist. Simple Dreams spawned a string of hit singles on numerous charts. Among them were the RIAA platinum-certified single "Blue Bayou", a country-rock interpretation of a Roy Orbison song; "It's So Easy" – previously sung by Buddy Holly – , a cover of The Rolling Stones' "Tumbling Dice", and "Poor Poor Pitiful Me", a song written by Warren Zevon, an up-and-coming songwriter of the time. The album garnered several Grammy Award nominations – including Record of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Performance/Female for "Blue Bayou" – and won its art director, Kosh, a Grammy Award for Best Album Cover, the first of three Grammy Awards he would win for designing Ronstadt album covers. In late 1977, Ronstadt became the first female recording artist to have two songs in the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 Top Ten at the same time. "Blue Bayou" was at No. 3 while "It's So Easy" was at No. 5.
Simple Dreams became one of the singer's most successful albums internationally, reaching number 1 on the Australian and Canadian Pop and Country Albums charts.[101] Simple Dreams also made Ronstadt the most successful international female touring artist. The same year, she completed a concert tour around Europe. As Country Music magazine wrote in October 1978, Simple Dreams solidified Ronstadt's role as "easily the most successful female rock and roll and country star at this time."[59]
Also in 1977, she was asked by the Los Angeles Dodgers to sing the U.S. National Anthem at game three of the World Series against the New York Yankees.[102]

Time and "rock chick" image[edit]
Ronstadt said she was "artificially encouraged to kinda cop a really tough attitude (and be tough) because rock and roll is kind of tough (business)".[15] Female rock artists like her and Janis Joplin, whom she described as lovely, shy, and literate in real life and the antithesis of the "red hot mamma" she was artificially encouraged to project, went through an identity crisis.[15]

Ronstadt on the cover of the February 28, 1977, issue of Time
By the mid-1970s, Ronstadt's image became just as famous as her music.[39] In 1976 and 1977, she appeared on the covers of Rolling Stone and Time. The Rolling Stone cover story was accompanied by a series of photographs of Ronstadt in a skimpy red slip, taken by Annie Leibovitz. Ronstadt felt deceived, not realizing that the photos would be so revealing. She says her manager Peter Asher kicked Leibovitz out of the house when she visited to show them the photographs prior to publication. Leibovitz had refused to let them veto any of the photos, which included one of Ronstadt sprawled across a bed in her underpants.[39] In a 1977 interview, Ronstadt explained, "Annie [Leibovitz] saw that picture as an exposé of my personality. She was right. But I wouldn't choose to show a picture like that to anybody who didn't know me personally, because only friends could get the other sides of me in balance."[103]
Her 1977 appearance on the cover Time under the banner "Torchy Rock" was also upsetting to Ronstadt, considering what the image appeared to project about the most famous woman in rock.[15][104] At a time in the industry when men still told women what to sing and what to wear,[105] Ronstadt hated the image of her that was projected to the world on that cover,[15] and she noted how the photographer kept forcing her to wear a dress, which was an image she did not want to project.[15] In 2004, she was interviewed for CBS This Morning[106] and stated that this image was not her because she did not sit like that. Asher noted, "Anyone who's met Linda for 10 seconds will know that I couldn't possibly have been her Svengali. She's an extremely determined woman, in every area. To me, she was everything that feminism's about."[105] Qualities which, Asher has stated, were considered a "negative (in a woman at that time), whereas in a man they were perceived as being masterful and bold".[80] Since her solo career had begun, Ronstadt had fought hard to be recognized as a solo female singer in the world of rock, and her portrayal on the Time cover did not appear to help the situation.[77]
In 1978, Rolling Stone declared Ronstadt "by far America's best-known female rock singer."[42] She scored a third number 1 album on the Billboard Album Chart – at this point equaling the record set by Carole King in 1974 – with Living in the USA. She achieved a major hit single with "Ooo Baby Baby", with her rendition hitting all four major singles charts (Pop, AC, Country, R&B). Living in the USA was the first album by any recording act in music history to ship double-platinum (over 2 million advance copies).[41] The album eventually sold 3 million U.S. copies.
At the end of that year, Billboard magazine crowned Ronstadt with three number-one Awards for the Year: Pop Female Singles Artist of the Year, Pop Female Album Artist of the Year, and Female Artist of the Year (overall).[107]
Living in the USA showed the singer on roller skates with a newly short, permed hairdo on the album cover. Ronstadt continued this theme on concert tour promotional posters with photos of her on roller skates in a dramatic pose with a large American flag in the background. By this stage of her career, she was using posters to promote every album[39] and concert – which at the time were recorded live on radio or television.
Ronstadt was also featured in the 1978 film FM, where the plot involved disc jockeys attempting to broadcast a Ronstadt concert live, without a competing station's knowledge. The film also showed Ronstadt performing the songs "Poor, Poor Pitiful Me", "Love Me Tender", and "Tumbling Dice". Ronstadt was persuaded to record "Tumbling Dice" after Mick Jagger came backstage when she was at a concert and said, "You do too many ballads, you should do more rock and roll songs."[108]
Following the success of Living in the USA, Ronstadt conducted album promotional tours and concerts. She made a guest appearance onstage with the Rolling Stones at the Tucson Community Center on July 21, 1978, in her hometown of Tucson, where she and Jagger sang "Tumbling Dice".[109][110][111] On singing with Jagger, Ronstadt later said, "I loved it. I didn't have a trace of stage fright. I'm scared to death all the way through my own shows. But it was too much fun to get scared. He's so silly onstage, he knocks you over. I mean you have to be on your toes or you wind up falling on your face."[42]

Highest-paid woman in rock[edit]


Rock is the thumping heart of Linda's music, and the rock world is dominated by males. The biggest stars are male, and so are the back-up musicians ... rock beats are ... phallic, and lyrics ... masculine. ... Janis Joplin, the first great white woman rocker, rattled the bars ... but she died. ... Joni Mitchell ... stylish (but can't) compete in drawing power with men ... (however) Linda Ronstadt ... has made herself one of the biggest individual rock draws in the world.


—Time magazine, in 1977[93]

Ronstadt at the New Haven Veterans Memorial Coliseum, August 16, 1978[112]
By the end of 1978, Ronstadt had solidified her role as one of rock and pop's most successful solo female acts, and owing to her consistent platinum album success, and her ability as the first woman to sell out concerts in arenas and stadiums hosting tens of thousands of fans,[31] Ronstadt became the "highest-paid woman in rock".[41] She had six platinum-certified albums, three of which were number 1 on the Billboard album chart, and numerous charting pop singles. In 1978 alone, she made over $12 million[31] (equivalent to $56,000,000 in 2023)[113] and in the same year her albums sales were reported to be 17 million – grossing over $60 million[114] (equivalent to $280,000,000 in 2023).[113]
As Rolling Stone dubbed her "Rock's Venus",[42] her record sales continued to multiply and set records themselves. By 1979, Ronstadt had collected eight gold, six platinum, and four multi-platinum certifications for her albums, an unprecedented feat at the time. Her 1976 Greatest Hits album would sell consistently for the next 25 years, and it was certified by the RIAA for seven-times platinum in 2001[96] (over seven million U.S. copies sold). In 1980, Greatest Hits, Volume 2 was released and certified platinum.[96]
In 1979, Ronstadt went on an international tour, playing in arenas across Australia to Japan, including the Melbourne Cricket Ground in Melbourne, and the Budokan in Tokyo. She also participated in a benefit concert for her friend Lowell George, held at the Forum, in Los Angeles.
By the end of the decade, Ronstadt had outsold her female competition; she had five straight platinum LPs – Hasten Down the Wind and Heart Like a Wheel among them.[115] Us Weekly reported in 1978 that Ronstadt, Joni Mitchell, Stevie Nicks, and Carly Simon had become "The Queens of Rock"[114] and "Rock is no longer exclusively male. There is a new royalty ruling today's record charts."[114]
She would go on to parlay her mass commercial appeal with major success in interpreting The Great American Songbook – made famous a generation before by Frank Sinatra and Ella Fitzgerald – and later the Mexican folk songs of her childhood.

From rock to operetta[edit]


Rampant eclecticism is my middle name.


—Linda Ronstadt[67]

Linda Ronstadt at Six Flags Over Texas, August 1981.
In February 1980, Ronstadt released Mad Love, her seventh consecutive platinum-selling album. It was a straightforward rock and roll album with post-punk, new wave influences, including tracks by songwriters such as Elvis Costello, the Cretones, and musician Mark Goldenberg who played on the record himself. As part of the album's promotion, a live concert was recorded for an HBO special in April. A partial soundtrack for this special (omitting most of the Mad Love tracks) was released as her first official live album in February 2019.[116]
She also made the cover of Rolling Stone for a record-setting sixth time. Mad Love entered the Billboard Album Chart in the Top Five its first week (a record at that time) and climbed to the number 3 position. The project continued her streak of Top 10 hits with "How Do I Make You", originally recorded by Billy Thermal, and "Hurt So Bad", originally a Top 10 hit for Little Anthony & the Imperials. The album earned Ronstadt a 1980 Grammy Award nomination for Best Rock Vocal Performance/Female (although she lost to Pat Benatar's Crimes of Passion album). Benatar praised Ronstadt by stating, "There are a lot of good female singers around. How could I be the best? Ronstadt is still alive!"[117]
In the summer of 1980, Ronstadt began rehearsals for the first of several leads in Broadway musicals. Joseph Papp cast her as the lead in the New York Shakespeare Festival production of Gilbert and Sullivan's The Pirates of Penzance, alongside Kevin Kline.[118] She said singing Gilbert and Sullivan was a natural choice for her, since her grandfather Fred Ronstadt was credited with having created Tucson's first orchestra, the Club Filarmonico Tucsonense, and had once created an arrangement of The Pirates of Penzance.[52]
The Pirates of Penzance opened for a limited engagement in New York City's Central Park, eventually moving its production to Broadway, where it became a hit, running from January 8, 1981, to November 28, 1982.[119] Newsweek was effusive in its praise: "... she has not dodged the coloratura demands of her role (and Mabel is one of the most demanding parts in the G&S canon): from her entrance trilling 'Poor Wand'ring One,' it is clear that she is prepared to scale whatever soprano peaks stand in her way."[97] Ronstadt co-starred with Kline and Angela Lansbury in the 1983 operetta's film version; this was her only acting role in a motion picture (her other film appearances, such as in the 1978 drama, FM, being concert footage as herself). Ronstadt received a Golden Globe nomination for the role in the film version. She garnered a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Musical and The Pirates of Penzance won several Tony Awards, including a Tony Award for Best Revival.
As a child, Ronstadt had discovered the opera La bohème through the silent film with Lillian Gish and was determined to someday play the part of Mimi. When she met the opera superstar Beverly Sills, she was told, "My dear, every soprano in the world wants to play Mimi!" In 1984, Ronstadt was cast in the role at Joseph Papp's Public Theater. However, the production was a critical and commercial disaster, closing after only a few nights.[120]
In 1982, Ronstadt released the album Get Closer, a primarily rock album with some country and pop music as well. It remains her only album between 1975 and 1990 not to be officially certified platinum. It peaked at number 31 on the Billboard Album Chart. The release continued her streak of Top 40 hits with "Get Closer" and "I Knew You When" – a 1965 hit by Billy Joe Royal – while the Jimmy Webb song "Easy For You To Say" was a surprise Top 10 Adult Contemporary hit in the spring of 1983. "Sometimes You Just Can't Win" was picked up by country radio, and made it to number 27 on that listing. Ronstadt also filmed several music videos for this album which became popular on the fledgling MTV cable channel. The album earned Ronstadt two Grammy Award nominations: one for Best Rock Vocal Performance/Female for the title track and another for Best Pop Vocal Performance/Female for the album. The artwork won its art director, Kosh, his second Grammy Award for Best Album Package.
Along with the release of her Get Closer album, Ronstadt embarked on a North American tour, remaining one of the top rock-concert draws that summer and fall. On November 25, 1982, her "Happy Thanksgiving Day" concert was held at the Reunion Arena in Dallas and broadcast live via satellite to NBC radio stations in the United States.[121]
In 1988, Ronstadt returned to Broadway for a limited-run engagement in the musical show adaptation of her album celebrating her Mexican heritage, Canciones De Mi Padre – A Romantic Evening in Old Mexico.[122]

Artistic aspirations[edit]
Ronstadt has remarked that in the beginning of her career she "was so focused on folk, rock and country" that she "got a bit bored and started to branch out, and ... [has] been doing that ever since."[123] By 1983, her estimated worth was over $40 million[124] mostly from records, concerts and merchandising.
In the early 1980s, Ronstadt was criticized for accepting $500,000 to perform at the South African resort Sun City, violating the cultural boycott imposed against South Africa because of its policy of apartheid.[125][126][127] At the time, she stated, "the last place for a boycott is in the arts" and "I don't like being told I can't go somewhere".[128] Paul Simon was criticized for including her on his 1986 album Graceland, recorded in South Africa, but defended her: "I know that her intention was never to support the government there ... She made a mistake. She's extremely liberal in her political thinking and unquestionably antiapartheid."[129]
Ronstadt eventually tired of playing arenas.[130] She had ceased to feel that arenas, where people milled around smoking marijuana cigarettes and drinking beer, were "appropriate places for music". She wanted "angels in the architecture" – a reference to a lyric in the Paul Simon song "You Can Call Me Al" from Graceland. (Ronstadt sang harmony with Simon on a different Graceland track, "Under African Skies". The second verse's lyrics pay tribute to Ronstadt: "Take this child, Lord, from Tucson, Arizona. ..."). Ronstadt has said she wants to sing in places similar to the theatre of ancient Greece, where the attention is focused on the stage and the performer.[131]
Ronstadt's recording output in the 1980s proved to be just as commercially and critically successful as her 1970s recordings. Between 1983 and 1990, Ronstadt scored six additional platinum albums; two are triple platinum (each with over three million U.S. copies sold); one has been certified double platinum (over two million copies sold), and one has earned additional certification as a Gold (over 500,000 U.S. copies sold) double-disc album.[49]

Jazz/pop trilogy[edit]
In 1981, Ronstadt produced and recorded an album of pop standards (later marketed in bootleg form) titled Keeping Out of Mischief with the assistance of producer Jerry Wexler. However, Ronstadt's displeasure with the result led her, with regrets, to scrap the project. "Doing that killed me," she said in a Time magazine interview.[132] But the appeal of the album's music had seduced Ronstadt, as she told DownBeat in April 1985, crediting Wexler for encouraging her.[133] Nonetheless, Ronstadt had to convince her reluctant record company, Elektra, to approve this type of album under her contract.[134]
By 1983, Ronstadt had enlisted the help of 62-year-old conductor Nelson Riddle. The two embarked on an unorthodox and original approach to rehabilitating the Great American Songbook, recording a trilogy of traditional pop albums: What's New (1983‍—‌U.S. 3.7 million as of 2010); Lush Life (1984‍—‌U.S. 1.7 million as of 2010); and For Sentimental Reasons (1986‍—‌U.S. 1.3 million as of 2010). The three albums have had a combined sales total of nearly seven million copies in the U.S. alone.



I now realize I was taking a tremendous risk, and that Joe Smith (the head of Elektra Records, and strongly opposed) was looking out for himself, and for me. When it became apparent I wouldn't change my mind, he said: "I love Nelson so much! Can I please come to the sessions." I said "Yes." When the albums ... were successful, Joe congratulated me, and I never said "I told you so."


—Linda Ronstadt[135]

The album design for What's New by designer Kosh was unlike any of her previous disc covers. It showed Ronstadt in a vintage dress lying on shimmering satin sheets with a Walkman headset. At the time, Ronstadt received some chiding for both the album cover and her venture into what was then considered "elevator music" by cynics, but remained determined to record with Riddle, and What's New became a hit. The album was released in September 1983 and spent 81 weeks on the Billboard Album Chart and held the number three position for a month and a half (held out of the top spot only by Michael Jackson's Thriller and Lionel Richie's Can't Slow Down) and the RIAA certified it triple platinum[96] (over three million copies sold in the U.S. alone). The album earned Ronstadt another Grammy nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and critical raves, with Time magazine calling it "one of the gutsiest, most unorthodox and unexpected albums of the year."[136]
Ronstadt faced considerable pressure not to record What's New or record with Riddle. According to jazz historian Peter Levinson, author of the book September in the Rain – a Biography on Nelson Riddle, Joe Smith, president of Elektra Records, was terrified that the Riddle album would turn off Ronstadt's rock audience.[134] Ronstadt did not completely turn her back on her rock and roll past, however; the video for the title track featured Danny Kortchmar as the old beau that she bumped into during a rainstorm.
What's New brought Riddle to a younger audience. According to Levinson, "the younger audience hated what Riddle had done with Frank Sinatra,[137] which in 1983 was considered 'Vintage Pop'". Working with Ronstadt, Riddle brought his career back into focus in the last three years of his life.[137] Stephen Holden of The New York Times wrote, What's New "isn't the first album by a rock singer to pay tribute to the golden age of the pop, but is ... the best and most serious attempt to rehabilitate an idea of pop that Beatlemania and the mass marketing of rock LPs for teenagers undid in the mid-60s. ... In the decade prior to Beatlemania, most of the great band singers and crooners of the 40s and 50s codified a half-century of American pop standards on dozens of albums ... many of them now long out-of-print."[138] What's New is the first album by a rock singer to have major commercial success in rehabilitating the Great American Songbook.[138]
In 1984, Ronstadt and Riddle performed these songs live, in concert halls throughout Australia, Japan, and the United States, including multi-night performances at historic venues Carnegie Hall, Radio City Music Hall, and Pine Knob.
In 2004, Ronstadt released Hummin' to Myself, her album for Verve Records. It was her first foray into traditional jazz since her sessions with Jerry Wexler and her records with the Nelson Riddle Orchestra, but this time with an intimate jazz combo. The album was a quiet affair for Ronstadt, giving few interviews and making only one television performance as a promotion. It reached number 2 on Billboard's Top Jazz Albums chart but peaked at number 166 on the main Billboard album chart. Not having the mass distribution that Warner Music Group gave her, Hummin' To Myself had sold over 75,000 copies in the U.S. as of 2010. It also achieved some critical acclaim from the jazz cognoscenti.[23]

"Trio" recordings[edit]


When (we) sang, it was a beautiful and different sound I've never heard before. We (recorded the vocals) as individual parts, because we didn't have the luxury of spending a lot of time together on a tour bus ... and knowing each other's (vocal) moves ... takes years.


—Linda Ronstadt[58]

In 1978, Ronstadt, Dolly Parton, and Emmylou Harris, friends and admirers of one another's work (Ronstadt had included a cover of Parton's "I Will Always Love You" on Prisoner in Disguise) attempted to collaborate on a Trio album. Unfortunately, the attempt did not pan out. Ronstadt later remarked that not too many people were in control at the time and everyone was too involved with their own careers. (Though the efforts to complete the album were abandoned, a number of the recordings were included on the singers' respective solo recordings over the next few years.) This concept album was put on the back burner for almost ten years.
In January 1986, the three eventually did make their way into the recording studio, where they spent the next several months working. The result, Trio, which they had conceived ten years earlier, was released in March 1987. It was a considerable hit, holding the number 1 position on Billboard's Country Albums chart for five weeks running and hitting the Top 10 on the pop side also. Selling over three million copies in the U.S. and winning them a Grammy Award for Best Country Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal, it produced four Top Ten Country singles including "To Know Him Is to Love Him" which hit number 1. The album was also a nominee for overall Album of the Year, in the company of Michael Jackson, U2, Prince, and Whitney Houston.
In 1994, the three performers recorded a follow-up to Trio. As was the case with their aborted 1978 effort, conflicting schedules and competing priorities delayed the album's release indefinitely. Ronstadt, who had already paid for studio time‍—‌and owed her record company a finished album‍—‌removed Parton's individual tracks at Parton's request, kept Harris's vocals, and produced a number of the recordings, which she subsequently released on her 1995 return to country rock, the album Feels Like Home.
However, in 1999, Ronstadt, Parton, and Harris agreed to release the Trio II album, as was originally recorded in 1994. It included an ethereal cover of Neil Young's "After The Gold Rush" which became a popular music video. The effort was certified Gold (over 500,000 copies sold) and won them a Grammy Award for Best Country Collaboration with Vocals for the track. Ronstadt co-produced the album with George Massenburg and the three women also received a nomination for the Grammy Award for Best Country Album.

Canciones de Mi Padre[edit]
Main article: Canciones de Mi Padre
At the end of 1987, Ronstadt released Canciones de Mi Padre, an album of traditional Mexican folk songs, or what she has described as "world class songs". Keeping with the Ronstadt history theme, her cover art was dramatic, bold, and colorful; it shows Ronstadt in full Mexican regalia. Her musical arranger was mariachi musician Rubén Fuentes.
These canciones were a big part of Ronstadt's family tradition and musical roots. In January 1946, the University of Arizona published a booklet by Luisa Espinel entitled Canciones de mi Padre.[139] Luisa Espinel, Ronstadt's aunt, was an international singer in the 1920s and 1930s. Espinel's father was Fred Ronstadt, Linda Ronstadt's grandfather, and the songs she had learned, transcribed, and published were some of the ones he had brought with him from Sonora. Ronstadt researched and extracted from the favorites she had learned from her father Gilbert and she called her album by the same name as her aunt's booklet and as a tribute to her father and his family. Though not fully bilingual, she has a fairly good command of the Spanish language, allowing her to sing Latin American songs with little discernible U.S. accent; Ronstadt has often identified herself as Mexican-American.[140] Her formative years were spent with her father's side of the family.[141] In fact, in 1976, Ronstadt had collaborated with her father to write and compose a traditional Mexican folk ballad, "Lo siento mi vida" – a song that she included on Hasten Down the Wind. Ronstadt has also credited Mexican singer Lola Beltrán as an influence on her own singing style, and she recalls how a frequent guest to the Ronstadt home, Eduardo "Lalo" Guerrero, father of Chicano music, would often serenade her as a child.[52]
Canciones de Mi Padre won Ronstadt a Grammy Award for Best Mexican-American Performance. In 2001, it was certified double-platinum by the RIAA for shipments of over 2 million copies in the United States, making it the best-selling non-English-language album in U.S. music history. The album and later theatrical stage show served as a benchmark of the Latin cultural renaissance in North America.



(I obtained) enough clout and ... after years and years of making commercial records, I was entitled to experiment ... the success of the (Nelson Riddle albums) ... entitled me to try the Mexican stuff.


—Linda Ronstadt[67]

Ronstadt produced and performed a theatrical stage show, also titled Canciones de mi Padre, in concert halls across the U.S. and Latin America to both Hispanic and non-Hispanic audiences. These performances were later released on DVD. Ronstadt elected to return to the Broadway stage, four years after she performed in La bohème, for a limited-run engagement. PBS's Great Performances aired the stage show during its annual fund drives and the show was a hit with audiences, earning Ronstadt a Primetime Emmy Award for Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program.
Ronstadt recorded two additional albums of Latin music in the early 1990s. Their promotion, like most of her albums in the 1990s, was a quieter affair, with Ronstadt making only a limited number of appearances to promote them. They were not nearly as successful as Canciones De Mi Padre, but were critically acclaimed in some circles. In 1991, she released Mas Canciones, a follow-up to the first Canciones. For this album, she won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican/Mexican-American Album. The following year, she stepped outside of the mariachi genre and decided to record well-known Afro-Cuban songs. This album was titled Frenesí. Like her two previous Latin recordings ventures, it won Ronstadt a Grammy Award, this time for Best Traditional Tropical Latin Album.
In 1991, Ronstadt acted in the lead role of archangel San Miguel in La Pastorela, or A Shephard's Tale, a musical filmed at San Juan Bautista. It was written and directed by Luis Valdez. The production was part of the PBS Great Performances series.
In December 2020, it was announced that Canciones de Mi Padre had been inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame.[142]

Returning to the contemporary music scene[edit]
By the late 1980s, while enjoying the success of her big band jazz collaborations with Riddle and her surprise hit mariachi recordings, Ronstadt elected to return to recording mainstream pop music once again. In 1987, she made a return to the top of the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with "Somewhere Out There", which peaked at number 2 in March.[97] Featured in the animated film An American Tail, the sentimental duet with James Ingram was nominated for several Grammy Awards, ultimately winning the Grammy Award for Song of the Year. The song also received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song and achieved high sales, earning a million-selling gold single in the U.S. – one of the last 45s ever to do so. It was also accompanied by a popular music video. On the heels of this success, Steven Spielberg asked Ronstadt to record the theme song for the animated sequel titled An American Tail: Fievel Goes West, which was titled "Dreams to Dream". Although "Dreams to Dream" failed to achieve the success of "Somewhere Out There", the song did give Ronstadt an Adult Contemporary hit in 1991.
In 1989, Ronstadt released a mainstream pop album and several popular singles. Cry Like A Rainstorm, Howl Like The Wind became one of the singer's most successful albums – in production, arrangements, sales, and critical acclaim. It became Ronstadt's tenth Top 10 album on the Billboard chart, reaching number 7 and being certified triple-platinum[96] (over three million copies sold in the U.S.). The album also received Grammy Award nominations.[143] Ronstadt included New Orleans soul singer Aaron Neville on several of the album's songs.
Ronstadt incorporated the sounds of the Oakland Interfaith Gospel Choir, Tower of Power horns, the Skywalker Symphony, and numerous musicians. It included the duets with Aaron Neville, "Don't Know Much" (Billboard Hot 100 number 2 hit, Christmas 1989[97]) and "All My Life" (Billboard Hot 100 number 11 hit), both of which were long-running number 1 Adult Contemporary hits. The duets earned several Grammy Award nominations. The duo won both the 1989 and 1990 Best Pop Vocal Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal awards. Ronstadt's last known live Grammy Award appearance was in 1990 when she and Neville performed "Don't Know Much" together on the telecast.[57] ("Whenever I sing with a different artist, I can get things out of my voice that I can't do by myself", Ronstadt reflected in 2007. "I can do things with Aaron that I can't do alone.")[144]
In December 1990, she participated in a concert held at the Tokyo Dome to commemorate John Lennon's 50th birthday, and to raise awareness of environmental issues. Other participants included Miles Davis, Lenny Kravitz, Hall & Oates, Natalie Cole, Yoko Ono, and Sean Lennon. An album resulted, titled Happy Birthday, John.[145]

Return to roots music[edit]
Ronstadt released the highly acclaimed Winter Light album at the end of 1993. It included New Age arrangements such as the lead single "Heartbeats Accelerating" as well as the self-penned title track and featured the glass harmonica. It was her first commercial failure since 1972, and peaked at number 92 in Billboard, whereas 1995's Feels Like Home was Ronstadt's much-heralded return to country-rock and included her version of Tom Petty's classic hit "The Waiting". The single's rollicking, fiddle-infused flip side, "Walk On", returned Ronstadt to the Country Singles chart for the first time since 1983. An album track entitled "The Blue Train" charted 10 weeks in Billboard's Adult Contemporary Top 40. This album fared slightly better than its predecessor, reaching number 75. Both albums were later deleted from the Elektra/Asylum catalog. Ronstadt was nominated for three Lo Nuestro Awards in 1993: Female Regional Mexican Artist of the Year, Female Tropical/Salsa Artist of the Year, and her version of the song "Perfidia" was also listed for Tropical/Salsa Song of the Year.[146]
In 1996, Ronstadt produced Dedicated to the One I Love, an album of classic rock and roll songs reinvented as lullabies. The album reached number 78 in Billboard and won the Grammy Award for Best Musical Album for Children.
In 1998, Ronstadt released We Ran, her first album in over two years. The album harkened back to Ronstadt's country-rock and folk-rock heyday. She returned to her rock 'n' roll roots with vivid interpretations of songs by Bruce Springsteen, Doc Pomus, Bob Dylan, and John Hiatt. The recording was produced by Glyn Johns. A commercial failure, the album stood at 57,897 copies sold at the time of its deletion in 2008. It is the poorest-selling studio album in Ronstadt's Elektra/Asylum catalog. We Ran did not chart any singles but it was well received by critics.
Despite the lack of success of We Ran, Ronstadt kept moving towards this adult rock exploration. In the summer of 1999, she released the album Western Wall: The Tucson Sessions, a folk-rock-oriented project with Emmylou Harris. It earned a nomination for the Grammy Award for the Best Contemporary Folk Album and made the Top 10 of Billboard's Country Albums chart. Still in print as of December 2016, it has sold 223,255 copies per Nielsen SoundScan.[citation needed]
Also in 1999, Ronstadt went back to her concert roots when she performed with the Eagles and Jackson Browne at Staples Center's 1999 New Year's Eve celebration kicking off the December 31 end-of-the-millennium festivities. As Staples Center Senior Vice President and general manager Bobby Goldwater said, "It was our goal to present a spectacular event as a sendoff to the 20th century", and "Eagles, Jackson Browne, and Linda Ronstadt are three of the most popular acts of the century. Their performances will constitute a singular and historic night of entertainment for New Year's Eve in Los Angeles."[147]
In 2000, Ronstadt completed her long contractual relationship with the Elektra/Asylum label. The fulfillment of this contract commenced with the release of A Merry Little Christmas, her first holiday collection, which includes rare choral works, the somber Joni Mitchell song "River", and a rare recorded duet with the late Rosemary Clooney on Clooney's signature song, "White Christmas".
Since leaving Warner Music, Ronstadt has gone on to release one album each under Verve and Vanguard Records.



Your musical soul is like facets of a jewel, and you stick out one facet at a time ... (and) I tend to work real hard on whatever it is I do, to get it up to speed, up to a professional level. I tend to bury myself in one thing for years at a time.


—Linda Ronstadt[39]

In 2006, recording as the ZoZo Sisters, Ronstadt teamed with her new friend, musician and musical scholar Ann Savoy, to record Adieu False Heart. It was an album of roots music incorporating pop, Cajun, and early-20th-century music and released on the Vanguard Records label. But Adieu False Heart was a commercial failure, peaking at number 146 in the U.S. despite her touring for the final time that year. It was the last time Linda Ronstadt would record an album, having begun to lose her singing ability as a result of a degenerative condition later determined to be progressive supranuclear palsy, but initially diagnosed as Parkinson's disease, in December 2012. Adieu False Heart, recorded in Louisiana, features a cast of local musicians, including Chas Justus, Eric Frey and Kevin Wimmer of the Red Stick Ramblers, Sam Broussard of the Mamou Playboys, Dirk Powell, and Joel Savoy, as well as an array of Nashville musicians: fiddler Stuart Duncan, mandolinist Sam Bush, and guitarist Bryan Sutton. The recording earned two Grammy Award nominations: Best Traditional Folk Album and Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical.
In 2007, Ronstadt contributed to the compilation album We All Love Ella: Celebrating the First Lady of Song – a tribute album to jazz music's all-time most heralded artist – on the track "Miss Otis Regrets".[148]
In August 2007, Ronstadt headlined the Newport Folk Festival, making her debut at this event, where she incorporated jazz, rock, and folk music into her repertoire. It was one of her final concerts.
In 2010, Ronstadt contributed the arrangement and lead vocal to "A La Orilla de un Palmar" on the Chieftains' studio album San Patricio (with Ry Cooder). This remains her most recent commercially available recording as lead vocalist.

Retirement[edit]
In 2011, Ronstadt was interviewed by the Arizona Daily Star and announced her retirement.[47] In August 2013, she revealed to Alanna Nash, writing for AARP, that she had Parkinson's disease and could "no longer sing a note."[149] Her diagnosis was subsequently re-evaluated as progressive supranuclear palsy.[24] Her memoir Feels Like Home: A Song for the Sonoran Borderlands was published in 2022.[150]

Selected career achievements[edit]
Ronstadt and Emmylou Harris receiving honors from Berklee, 2009
On April 10, 2014, Ronstadt was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.[151] In July 2019, Ronstadt was selected as a Kennedy Center Honoree.[152] On May 7, 2022, during the International Mariachi Conference, the Tucson Music Hall at the Tucson Convention Center was officially renamed as The Linda Ronstadt Music Hall.[153]
As of 2019, Ronstadt had earned three number-one pop albums, 10 top-ten pop albums, and 38 charting pop albums on the Billboard Pop Album Charts. She has 15 albums on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart, including four that hit number one. Ronstadt's singles have earned her a number-one hit and three number-two hits on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, with 10 top-ten pop singles and 21 reaching the Top 40. She has also scored two number-one hits on the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart, and two number-one hits on the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart. Rolling Stone wrote that a whole generation "but for her, might never have heard the work of Buddy Holly, Chuck Berry, or Elvis Costello."[86]
She has recorded and released over 30 studio albums and has made guest appearances on an estimated 120 albums by other artists. Her guest appearances included the classical minimalist Philip Glass's album Songs from Liquid Days, a hit classical record with other major pop stars either singing or writing lyrics (Ronstadt's two tracks on the album saw her singing lyrics written by Suzanne Vega and Laurie Anderson). She also appeared on Glass's follow-up recording 1000 Airplanes on the Roof. She appeared on Paul Simon's Graceland, where she sang a duet with Simon, "Under African Skies". In that song, there is a verse dedicated to Ronstadt, her voice and harmonies and her birth in Tucson, Arizona. She voiced herself in The Simpsons episode "Mr. Plow" and sang a duet, "Funny How Time Slips Away", with Homer Simpson on The Yellow Album.
Ronstadt has also appeared on albums by a vast range of artists including Emmylou Harris, the Chieftains, Dolly Parton, Neil Young, JD Souther, Gram Parsons, Bette Midler, Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Earl Scruggs, the Eagles, Andrew Gold, Wendy Waldman, Hoyt Axton, Kate and Anna McGarrigle, Ann Savoy, Karla Bonoff, James Taylor, Jimmy Webb, Valerie Carter, Warren Zevon, Maria Muldaur, Randy Newman (specifically his musical adaptation of Faust), Nicolette Larson, the Seldom Scene, Rosemary Clooney, Aaron Neville, Rodney Crowell, Hearts and Flowers, Laurie Lewis and Flaco Jiménez. As a singer-songwriter, Ronstadt has written songs covered by several artists, such as "Try Me Again", covered by Trisha Yearwood; and "Winter Light", which was co-written and composed with Zbigniew Preisner and Eric Kaz, and covered by Sarah Brightman.
Her three biggest-selling studio albums to date are: her 1977 release Simple Dreams, 1983's What's New, and 1989's Cry Like A Rainstorm, Howl Like The Wind. Each one has been certified by the Recording Industry Association of America for over three million copies sold. Her highest-selling album to date is the 1976 compilation Greatest Hits, certified for over seven million units sold as of 2001.[96] Ronstadt became music's first major touring female artist to sell out sizeable venues; she was also the top-grossing solo female concert artist for the 1970s.[41] She remained a highly successful touring artist into the 1990s, at which time she decided to scale back to smaller venues. In the 1970s, Cashbox magazine, a competitor of Billboard during that time period, named Ronstadt the "#1 Female Artist of the Decade".[31] "Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time" included Heart Like a Wheel (1974) at number 164 and The Very Best Of Linda Ronstadt (2002) at number 324.[154] The 2012 revision kept only the compilation, but raised it to the place once occupied by Heart Like a Wheel.
Ronstadt's album sales have not been certified since 2001. At that time, Ronstadt's U.S. album sales were certified by the Recording Industry Association of America at over 30 million albums sold; however, Peter Asher, her former producer and manager, placed her total U.S. album sales at over 45 million.[51] Likewise, her worldwide albums sales are in excess of 100 million albums sold, according to the former president of Warner Bros. Records, Joe Smith, now a jury member of the Hit Parade Hall of Fame.[155] Her RIAA certification (audits paid for by record companies or artists for promotion) tally as of 2001 totaled 19 Gold, 14 Platinum and 7 Multi-Platinum albums.[96] She was the first female in music history to score three consecutive platinum albums and ultimately racked up a total of eight consecutive platinum albums.[49] Her album Living in the USA was the first album by any recording artist in U.S. music history to ship double platinum (over two million advanced copies).[41] Her first Latin release, the all-Spanish 1987 album Canciones De Mi Padre, stands as the best-selling non-English-language album in American music history. As of 2013, it had sold over 21⁄2 million U.S. copies.
Ronstadt has served as producer on albums from various musicians that include her cousin, David Lindley, Aaron Neville and singer-songwriter Jimmy Webb.[156] She produced Cristal – Glass Music Through the Ages, an album of classical music using glass instruments with Dennis James, where she sang on several of the arrangements.[157] In 1999, Ronstadt also produced the Grammy Award-winning Trio II. She has received a total of 27 Grammy Award nominations in various fields that include rock, country, pop and Tropical Latin, and has won 11 Grammy Awards in the categories of Pop, Country, Tropical Latin, Musical Album for Children and Mexican-American. In 2016, Ronstadt was again honored by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences with the Lifetime Achievement Grammy.
She was the first female solo artist to have two Top 5 singles simultaneously on Billboard magazine's Hot 100: "Blue Bayou" and "It's So Easy". By December of that year, both "Blue Bayou" and "It's So Easy" had climbed into Billboard's Top 5 and remained there for the month's last four weeks.[158] In 1999, Ronstadt ranked number 21 in VH1's 100 Greatest Women of Rock & Roll. Three years later, she ranked number 40 in CMT's 40 Greatest Women in Country Music. In 2023, Rolling Stone ranked Ronstadt at No. 47 on their list of the 200 Greatest Singers of All Time.[159]

Personal life[edit]
Jerry Brown (pictured) had a high-profile relationship with Ronstadt when he was the governor of California in the late 1970s.
In the early 1970s, Ronstadt briefly dated fellow musician JD Souther, who co-produced her Don't Cry Now album.[160] Beginning in the mid-1970s, Ronstadt's private life became increasingly public. It was fueled by a relationship with then-Governor of California Jerry Brown, a Democratic presidential candidate. They shared a Newsweek magazine cover in April 1979,[161] as well as the covers of Us Weekly and People magazine.
In 1983, Ronstadt dated comedian Jim Carrey for eight months.[162] From the end of 1983 to 1988, Ronstadt was engaged to Star Wars director and creator George Lucas.[163]
In December 1990, she adopted an infant daughter, Mary Clementine Ronstadt.[164] In 1994, she adopted a baby boy, Carlos Ronstadt.[165] Ronstadt has never married.[166] Speaking of finding an acceptable mate, in 1974 she told Peter Knobler in Crawdaddy, "... he's real kind but isn't inspired musically and then you meet somebody else that's just so inspired musically that he just takes your breath away but he's such a moron, such a maniac that you can't get along with him. And then after that it's the problem of finding someone that can stand you!"[167]
In the late 1980s, after living in Los Angeles for 30 years, Ronstadt moved to San Francisco because she said she never felt at home in Southern California.[165] "Los Angeles became too enclosing an environment", she says. "I couldn't breathe the air and I didn't want to drive on the freeways to get to the studio. I also didn't want to embrace the values that have been so completely embraced by that city. Are you glamorous? Are you rich? Are you important? Do you have clout? It's just not me and it never was me."[56] In 1997, Ronstadt sold her home in San Francisco and moved back to her hometown of Tucson, Arizona, to raise her two children.[165] In more recent years, Ronstadt moved back to San Francisco while continuing to maintain her home in Tucson.[168]
In 2009, in honor of Ronstadt, the Martin Guitar Company made a 00–42 model "Linda Ronstadt Limited Edition" acoustic guitar. Ronstadt appointed the Land Institute as recipient of all proceeds from her signature guitar.[169]
In 2013, Simon & Schuster published her autobiography,[170][171] Simple Dreams: A Musical Memoir, as well as the Spanish version, Sueños Sencillos – Memorias Musicales.[172]
In August 2013, Ronstadt revealed she was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, leaving her unable to sing due to loss of muscular control, which is common to Parkinson's patients. She was diagnosed eight months prior to the announcement and had initially attributed the symptoms she had been experiencing to the aftereffects of shoulder surgery and a tick bite.[173][174] In late 2019, it was reported her doctors had revised their diagnosis to progressive supranuclear palsy, a degenerative disease commonly mistaken for Parkinson's due to the similarity of the symptoms.[24]
Ronstadt describes herself as a "spiritual atheist".[175]

Political activism[edit]
Ronstadt's politics received criticism and praise during and after her July 17, 2004, performance at the Aladdin Theatre for the Performing Arts in Las Vegas. Toward the end of the show, as she had done across the country, Ronstadt spoke to the audience, praising Fahrenheit 9/11, Michael Moore's documentary film about the Iraq War; she dedicated the song "Desperado" to Moore.[176] Accounts say the crowd's initial reaction was mixed, with "half the crowd heartily applauding her praise for Moore, (and) the other half booing."[176]
Following the concert, news accounts reported Ronstadt was "evicted" from the hotel premises.[177] Ronstadt's comments, as well as the reactions of some audience members and the hotel, became a topic of discussion nationwide. Aladdin casino president Bill Timmins and Michael Moore each made public statements about the controversy.[178]
The incident prompted international headlines and debate on an entertainer's right to express a political opinion from the stage and made the editorial section of The New York Times.[179] Following the incident, many friends of Ronstadt's, including the Eagles, immediately cancelled their engagements at the Aladdin.[57] Ronstadt also received telegrams of support from her rock 'n' roll friends around the world like the Rolling Stones, the Eagles and Elton John. Amid reports of mixed public response, Ronstadt continued her praise of Moore and his film throughout her 2004 and 2006 summer concerts across North America.
At a 2006 concert in Canada, Ronstadt told the Calgary Sun that she was "embarrassed George Bush (was) from the United States. ... He's an idiot. ... He's enormously incompetent on both the domestic and international scenes. ... Now the fact that we were lied to about the reasons for entering into war against Iraq and thousands of people have died‍—‌it's just as immoral as racism." Her remarks drew international headlines. In an August 14, 2007, interview, she commented on all her well-publicized, outspoken views, in particular the Aladdin incident, by noting, "If I had it to do over I would be much more gracious to everyone ... you can be as outspoken as you want if you are very, very respectful. Show some grace".[180]
In 2007, Ronstadt resided in San Francisco while also maintaining her home in Tucson.[181] That same year, she drew criticism and praise[182] from Tucsonans for commenting that local city council's failings, developers' strip mall mentality, greed and growing dust problem had rendered the city unrecognizable and poorly developed.[183]
In August 2009, Ronstadt, in a well-publicized interview to PlanetOut Inc. titled "Linda Ronstadt's Gay Mission", championed gay rights and same-sex marriage, and stated "homophobia is anti-family values. Period, end of story."[184]
On January 16, 2010, Ronstadt converged with thousands of other activists in a "National Day of Action". Ronstadt stated that her "dog in the fight" – as a native Arizonan and coming from a law enforcement family – was the treatment of illegal aliens and Arizona's enforcement of its illegal immigrant law, especially Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio's efforts in that area.[185]
On April 29, 2010, Ronstadt began a campaign, including joining a lawsuit,[186] against Arizona's new illegal-immigration law SB 1070 calling it a "devastating blow to law enforcement ... the police don't protect us in a democracy with brute force", something she said she learned from her brother, Peter, who was Chief of Police in Tucson.[187]
Ronstadt has also been outspoken on environmental and community issues. She is a major supporter and admirer of sustainable agriculture pioneer Wes Jackson, saying in 2000, "the work he's doing right now is the most important work there is in the (United States)",[163] and dedicating the rock anthem "Desperado" to him at an August 2007 concert in Kansas City, Kansas.[188]
Ronstadt endorsed Kamala Harris for the 2024 US Presidential election.[189]

National arts advocacy[edit]


In the United States we spend millions of dollars on sports because it promotes teamwork, discipline, and the experience of learning to make great progress in small increments. Learning to play music together does all this and more.


—Congressional testimony from Linda Ronstadt[190]

In 2004, Ronstadt wrote the foreword to the book The NPR Curious Listener's Guide to American Folk Music,[191] and in 2005, she wrote the introduction to the book Classic Ferrington Guitars, about guitar-maker and luthier Danny Ferrington and the custom guitars that he created for Ronstadt and other musicians such as Elvis Costello, Ry Cooder, and Kurt Cobain.[192]
Ronstadt has been honored for her contribution to the American arts. On September 23, 2007, she was inducted into the Arizona Music & Entertainment Hall of Fame, along with Stevie Nicks, Buck Owens, and filmmaker Steven Spielberg.[193] On August 17, 2008, Ronstadt received a tribute by various artists, including BeBe Winans and Wynonna Judd, when she was honored with the Trailblazer Award, presented to her by Plácido Domingo at the 2008 ALMA Awards,[194] a ceremony later televised in the U.S. on ABC.
In 2008, Ronstadt was appointed artistic director of the San José Mariachi and Mexican Heritage Festival.[195][196] On March 31, 2009, in testimony that the Los Angeles Times termed "remarkable",[197] Ronstadt spoke to the United States Congress House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment & Related Agencies, attempting to convince lawmakers to budget $200 million in the 2010 fiscal year for the National Endowment of the Arts.[196]
In May 2009, Ronstadt received an honorary doctorate of music degree from the Berklee College of Music for her achievements and influence in music and her contributions to American and international culture.[198] Mix magazine stated that "Linda Ronstadt (has) left her mark on more than the record business; her devotion to the craft of singing influenced many audio professionals ... (and is) intensely knowledgeable about the mechanics of singing and the cultural contexts of every genre she passes".[58]

Awards and nominations[edit]
Grammy Awards[edit]


Year

Category

Nominated work

Result

Ref.


1971

Best Contemporary Vocal Performance, Female

"Long, Long Time"

Nominated

[199]


1976

Album of the Year

Heart Like a Wheel

Nominated


Best Contemporary Vocal Performance, Female

Nominated


Best Country Vocal Performance, Female

"I Can't Help It (If I'm Still in Love with You)"

Won


1977

Best Contemporary Vocal Performance, Female

Hasten Down the Wind

Won


1978

"Blue Bayou"

Nominated


Record of the Year

Nominated


1981

Best Rock Vocal Performance, Female

"How Do I Make You"

Nominated


1983

"Get Closer"

Nominated


Best Female Vocal Pop Performance

Get Closer

Nominated


1984

What's New

Nominated


1986

Lush Life

Nominated


1988

Album of the Year

Trio (with Dolly Parton and Emmylou Harris)

Nominated


Best Country Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal

Won


Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals

"Somewhere Out There" (with James Ingram)

Nominated


1989

Best Mexican-American Performance

Canciones de Mi Padre

Won


1990

Best Female Vocal Pop Performance

Cry Like a Rainstorm, Howl Like the Wind

Nominated


Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals

"Don't Know Much" (with Aaron Neville)

Won


1991

"All My Life" (with Aaron Neville)

Won


1993

Best Tropical Latin Album

Frenesí

Won


Best Mexican-American Album

Mas Canciones

Won


1997

Best Musical Album for Children

Dedicated to the One I Love

Won


2000

Best Country Album

Trio II (with Dolly Parton and Emmylou Harris)

Nominated


Best Contemporary Folk Album

Western Wall: The Tucson Sessions (with Emmylou Harris)

Nominated


Best Country Collaboration with Vocals

"After the Gold Rush" (with Dolly Parton and Emmylou Harris)

Won


2007

Best Traditional Folk Album

Adieu False Heart (with Ann Savoy)

Nominated


2016

Lifetime Achievement Award

Won


2021

Best Music Film

Linda Ronstadt: The Sound of My Voice

Won


In 1981 the album In Harmony: A Sesame Street Record won the Grammy for Best Album for Children. Ronstadt was one of the various artists featured on the album. The Grammys were awarded to the producers, David Levine and Lucy Simon.
Latin Grammy Awards[edit]


Year

Category

Nominated work

Result

Ref.


2011

Lifetime Achievement Award

Won

[200]


Primetime Emmy Awards[edit]


Year

Category

Nominated work

Result

Ref.


1989

Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program

Canciones de Mi Padre (Great Performances)

Won

[201]


Tony Awards[edit]


Year

Category

Nominated work

Result

Ref.


1981

Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Musical

The Pirates of Penzance

Nominated




Golden Globe Awards[edit]
1983 – Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Musical or Comedy, Linda Ronstadt in The Pirates of Penzance


Year

Category

Nominated work

Result

Ref.


1983

Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical

The Pirates of Penzance

Nominated




Arizona Music and Entertainment Hall of Fame[edit]
2007 – Inducted for her significant impact on the evolution and development of the entertainment culture in the state of Arizona
Academy of Country Music[edit]
1974 – Best New Female Artist
1987 – Album of the Year/ Trio, Dolly Parton, Linda Ronstadt and Emmylou Harris
Country Music Association[edit]
1988 – Vocal Event of the Year / Trio, Dolly Parton, Linda Ronstadt and Emmylou Harris
American Latino Media Arts[edit]
2008 – Trailblazer Award for Contribution to American Music[202]
Lo Nuestro nominations[edit]
1989 – Regional Mexican Female Artist, Regional Mexican Album (Canciones de Mi Padre), and Crossover Artist[203]
1992 – Regional Mexican Female Artist[204]
1993 – Tropical Female Artist, Regional Mexican Female Artist, and Tropical Song ("Perfidia").[205]
Kennedy Center[edit]
2019 Kennedy Center Honoree
Discography[edit]
Main articles: Linda Ronstadt albums discography and Linda Ronstadt singles discography
Studio albums

Linda Ronstadt, Stone Poneys and Friends, Vol. III (1968) (with the Stone Poneys)
Hand Sown ... Home Grown (1969)
Silk Purse (1970)
Linda Ronstadt (1972)
Don't Cry Now (1973)
Heart Like a Wheel (1974)
Prisoner in Disguise (1975)
Hasten Down the Wind (1976)
Simple Dreams (1977)
Living in the USA (1978)
Mad Love (1980)
Get Closer (1982)
What's New (1983)
Lush Life (1984)
For Sentimental Reasons (1986)
Trio (1987) (with Emmylou Harris and Dolly Parton)
Canciones de Mi Padre (1987)
Cry Like a Rainstorm, Howl Like the Wind (1989)
Mas Canciones (1991)
Frenesí (1992)
Winter Light (1993)
Feels Like Home (1995)
Dedicated to the One I Love (1996)
We Ran (1998)
Trio II (1999) (Emmylou Harris and Dolly Parton)
Western Wall: The Tucson Sessions (1999) (with Emmylou Harris)
A Merry Little Christmas (2000)
Hummin' to Myself (2004)
Adieu False Heart (2006) (with Ann Savoy)

Videography, filmography and stage appearances[edit]
Main article: List of Linda Ronstadt performances
Books[edit]
Ronstadt, Linda (2013). Simple Dreams: A Musical Memoir (First Simon & Schuster hardcover ed.). New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-4516-6872-8. OCLC 829743967.
Ronstadt, Linda (2022). Feels Like Home: A Song for the Sonoran Borderlands. New York: Heyday Books. ISBN 978-1597145794. OCLC 1290245461.
Explanatory notes[edit]


^  Ronstadt was initially diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, which she publicly revealed in 2013. However, it was reported in late 2019 that doctors have revised their diagnosis to progressive supranuclear palsy, which is commonly mistaken for Parkinson's due to the similarity of symptoms.


References[edit]


^ Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "Linda Ronstadt > Biography". AllMusic. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved December 13, 2009.

^ Manheim, James. "Gary Morris Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved July 22, 2023. he appeared with another former progressive country singer, Linda Ronstadt, in the Broadway adaptation of Puccini's opera La Bohème

^ "Linda Ronstadt". Grammys.com. Archived from the original on January 2, 2020. Retrieved March 10, 2019.

^ "2014 Induction Ceremony The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum". Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. October 16, 2013. Archived from the original on October 17, 2013. Retrieved October 16, 2013.

^ "President Obama Honors Linda Ronstadt, Jeffrey Katzenberg, Others in Art and Humanities Ceremony". Daily News. New York. Associated Press. July 28, 2014. Archived from the original on November 25, 2015. Retrieved November 23, 2015.

^ Silverman, Stephen M. (July 20, 2004). "Ronstadt Booted After Pro-Moore Comment". People. Archived from the original on July 29, 2018. Retrieved July 28, 2018.

^ "Interview: Linda Ronstadt defends her politics". Edmonton Sun. August 10, 2006. Archived from the original on January 15, 2013. Retrieved October 2, 2015.{{cite news}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ Kruger, Debbie (July 19, 1998). "Everlasting Linda". The Weekend Australian. Archived from the original on October 31, 2015. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ "Linda Ronstadt: Female Rocker". Fusion. December 26, 1969. Archived from the original on March 14, 2012. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ "A Heart To Heart with Linda Ronstadt". Creem. December 1976. Archived from the original on October 13, 2014. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ "Interview". The San Diego Union-Tribune. Archived from the original on May 4, 2012. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ "Linda Ronstadt rocks with jazz sophistication". August 4, 2007. Archived from the original on September 30, 2007. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ "Linda Ronstadt lets wisdom strike notes". The Honolulu Advertiser. March 31, 2006. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ "Linda Ronstadt: Melancholy Baby". Esquire. October 1985. Archived from the original on March 16, 2015. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ a b c d e f "Not My Job: Linda Ronstadt". Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!. NPR. April 28, 2007. Archived from the original on October 3, 2015. Retrieved October 2, 2015.

^ Some of the content of the lead section is supported by these news items:[6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15]

^ Hermanson, Wendy (June 26, 2018). "Faith Hill, Dolly Parton, Emmylou Harris, Linda Ronstadt Getting Stars on Hollywood Walk of Fame". Taste of Country. Archived from the original on June 27, 2018. Retrieved October 9, 2020.

^ "Powerful Country Women Getting Stars on Hollywood Walk of Fame". Taste of Country. June 27, 2018. Archived from the original on September 4, 2018. Retrieved August 24, 2018.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". Official Charts Company. Archived from the original on May 8, 2019. Retrieved September 25, 2009.

^ "Don't Know Much". Official Charts Company. Archived from the original on June 3, 2015. Retrieved September 25, 2009.

^ "Disc 2, October 1969: Featuring Linda Ronstadt, Joe Cocker, Billy Eckstine, Mort Sahl, and Sid Caesar, God Bless the Child Linda Ronstadt and Billy Eckstine Duet". Playboy After Dark DVD Collection. Archived from the original on August 21, 2006. Retrieved December 13, 2012.

^ Partridge, Tony (September 12, 2006). "Linda Ronstadt Guest Appearances and Unique Recordings" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on May 9, 2008. Retrieved August 30, 2007.http://lyricswww.ronstadt-linda.com/guestapp.doc Archived November 24, 2015, at the Wayback Machine

^ a b Loudon, Christopher (December 2004). "Linda Ronstadt: Hummin' to Myself (Verve)". JazzTimes. Archived from the original on April 13, 2007. Retrieved April 19, 2007.

^ a b c d McCarthy, Ellen (December 3, 2019). "Linda Ronstadt never stopped singing". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on December 4, 2019. Retrieved December 4, 2019.

^ Ronstadt, Linda (2013). Simple Dreams: A Musical Memoir. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-4516-6872-8. OCLC 829743967.

^ Kingsbury, Paul, ed. (2004). The Encyclopedia of Country Music. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. p. 458. ISBN 978-0-199-84044-1.

^ "Borderman: Memoirs of Federico José María Ronstadt". University of Arizona Press. 2003. Archived from the original on February 10, 2007. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ Bego, Mark (1990). Linda Ronstadt: It's So Easy. Eakin Press. pp. 9–11. ISBN 0-89015-775-8.

^ Gross, Terry (October 22, 2022). "Linda Ronstadt: The 'Fresh Air' interview". WWNO. Archived from the original on March 24, 2023.

^ Ronstadt, Deborah J. (1953). "Gilbert Ronstadt Was Born in 1911". Family Circle. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved May 17, 2007.

^ a b c d e f g h Vallely, Jean (April 1980). "Playboy Interview: Linda Ronstadt". Playboy. Archived from the original on December 5, 2007. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ "Tucson's Ronstadt Family". Through Our Parents' Eyes: History and Culture of Southern Arizona. Arizona Library. Archived from the original on February 23, 2007. Retrieved April 9, 2007.

^ "The Ronstadt Family". The University of Arizona Archives. Archived from the original on September 4, 2006. Retrieved October 3, 2007.

^ "The People". Early Pioneers of Tucson. September 2011. Archived from the original on June 18, 2006. Retrieved May 16, 2007.

^ McLeese, Don (June 1992). "Songs from Her Heart". Ford Times. Archived from the original on December 5, 2007. Retrieved October 30, 2006.http://www.ronstadt-linda.com/ford_times.html Archived March 5, 2016, at the Wayback Machine

^ Bluestein, T (August 1991). "Tucson Opens Ronstadt Transit Center". Bus World. Vol. 13, no. 4. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved June 5, 2010.

^ Ronstadt, Linda (2013). Simple Dreams: a Musical Memoir. New York: Simon & Schuster. p. 2. ISBN 978-1-4516-6872-8.

^ "LloydCopeman.com Prolific U.S. Inventor". LloydCopeman.com. Archived from the original on April 13, 2007. Retrieved April 9, 2007.

^ a b c d e f g DeYoung, Bill (February 21, 2003). "Home at Last: The Journey of Linda Ronstadt". Goldmine. No. 589. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved April 28, 2014.

^ a b c d e McGrath, T. J. (June–July 2003). "Linda Ronstadt Silver Threads & Golden Needles". Dirty Linen Issue No. 106. Archived from the original on July 17, 2004. Retrieved November 15, 2012.

^ a b c d e f Hirshey, Gerri (June 2002). We Gotta Get Out of This Place: The True, Tough Story of Women in Rock. Grove Press. p. 86. ISBN 9780802138996. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved May 11, 2007.

^ a b c d Herbst, Peter (October 19, 1978). "Rock's Venus Takes Control of Her Affairs (as reprinted in Herbst, The Rolling Stone Interviews, 1989)". Rolling Stone. ISBN 9780312034863. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved November 15, 2012 – via Google Books.

^ a b Hamill, Pete (July 21, 1980). Linda Ronstadt, Pirate Queen. p. 23. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved November 15, 2012.

^ Connelly, Christopher (October 13, 1983). "What's New – Album Reviews". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 16, 2017. Retrieved November 15, 2012.

^ Gioia, Michael (August 26, 2013). "Tony Nominee and Grammy Winner Linda Ronstadt Diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease and Is Unable to Sing". Playbill. Archived from the original on October 4, 2013. Retrieved October 3, 2013.

^ Bruns, Mary Ellin (January 8, 1984). "Ronstadt: The Gamble Pays Off Big". Family Weekly. Archived from the original on January 5, 2008. Retrieved April 9, 2007.

^ a b Burch, Cathalena E. (April 22, 2011). "Ronstadt: Legacy 'Belongs 100 Percent to Nelson'". Arizona Daily Star. Archived from the original on July 22, 2013. Retrieved September 4, 2013.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)

^ "RIAA – Gold & Platinum Searchable Database". Recording Industry Association of America. Archived from the original on January 4, 2013. Retrieved November 15, 2012. (Search for "Ronstadt, Linda")

^ a b c "Linda Ronstadt Top Pop Albums". Joel Whitburn presents the Billboard Albums 6th ed. (2007). ronstadt-linda.com. Archived from the original on March 3, 2016. Retrieved April 19, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt Record Sales Page". lindaronstadt.de. Linda Ronstadt (DE) fan site. Archived from the original on November 8, 2010. Retrieved November 15, 2010.[dubious – discuss]

^ a b c Kruger, Debbie (June 17, 1998). "Linda Ronstadt Interview 17 June 1998 at Linda's home in Tucson, Arizona". debbiekruger.com. Archived from the original on September 28, 2007. Retrieved July 6, 2007.

^ a b c Leach, Anita Mabante (August 2007). "Linda Ronstadt: The music legend opens up to AARP Segunda Juventud Online". Archived from the original on December 22, 2008. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ a b Burlingame, Burl. "Silver threads golden moments: After 35 years, Linda Ronstadt returns to sing in Diamond Head Crater". Honolulu Star-Bulletin. Archived from the original on August 8, 2010. Retrieved April 9, 2007.

^ McGrath, T.J. "Linda Ronstadt: Silver Threads & Golden Needles". No. #106 – June/July 2003. Dirty Linen. Archived from the original on March 5, 2016. Retrieved November 15, 2015.

^ "Sanity on the Line Every Show". Hit Parader. February 1971. Archived from the original on March 31, 2016. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ a b Holden, Stephen (April 19, 1995). "At Lunch With: Linda Ronstadt; And This Is What 48 Looks Like". The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 18, 2013. Retrieved September 5, 2011.

^ a b c "Linda Ronstadt: Forum with Michael Krasny" (MP3, transcript). KQED-FM radio. July 19, 2006. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved July 6, 2007.

^ a b c d e f g Daley, Dan (December 1, 2000). "Linda Ronstadt". Mix. Archived from the original on November 13, 2005. Retrieved May 7, 2007.http://www.mixonline.com/news/profiles/linda-ronstadt/365380 Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine

^ a b Barnard, Russ (October 1978). "Linda Ronstadt: The Queen of Rock & Roll is also a Queen of Country Music". Country Music. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved May 11, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". University of Arizona Alumni. Retrieved June 6, 2023.

^ a b Lewis, Randy (August 20, 2010). "Linda Ronstadt remembers Kenny Edwards: 'A beacon to me'". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on August 23, 2010. Retrieved September 4, 2010.

^ a b c d Orloff, Katherine (1974). Rock 'n' Roll Woman. Nash Pub. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.

^ Claire, Vivian (1978). Linda Ronstadt. New York: Flash Books. p. 10. ISBN 0-8256-3918-2.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". Rhapsody. Archived from the original on July 4, 2011. Retrieved April 1, 2009.

^ "Remington Electric Razor". The Linda Ronstadt Download Center. westhamptonpg personal webpage. Archived from the original on December 17, 2005. Retrieved June 16, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt's 1969–1974 Capitol Records Solo Output Presented in New 2-CD Collection, 'The Best Of Linda Ronstadt: The Capitol Years'" (Press release). PR Newswire. November 8, 2005. Archived from the original on October 11, 2007. Retrieved September 30, 2007.

^ a b c Shapiro, Gregg (February 1, 2003). "The Very Best: Linda Ronstadt". Windy City Times. Archived from the original on November 21, 2006. Retrieved July 31, 2008.

^ jason (May 20, 2007). "Swampwater "Swampwater"". The Rising Storm. Archived from the original on June 9, 2007. Retrieved June 14, 2007.

^ Roberts, John (May 2003). "John Beland". The Barking Spider. Archived from the original on August 3, 2007. Retrieved June 14, 2007.

^ "Gib Guilbeau, 1970–1972". Swampwater. Archived from the original on June 9, 2007. Retrieved June 14, 2007.

^ See generally Tom King, The Operator: David Geffen Builds, Buys, and Sells the New Hollywood, p. 159, 173, Broadway Books (New York 2001).

^ Eliot, Marc (December 29, 2004). To the Limit: The Untold Story of the Eagles. Da Capo Press. pp. 119–. ISBN 978-0-306-81398-6. Retrieved December 15, 2016.[permanent dead link]

^ "The Eagles Long Run Live | Full Music Documentary Movie | Don Henley | Linda Ronstadt". YouTube. Archived from the original on March 1, 2023. Retrieved March 1, 2023.

^ Crowe, Cameron (December 2, 1976). "Linda Ronstadt: The Million-Dollar Woman". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on July 6, 2008. Retrieved July 31, 2008.

^ Knobler, Peter. "Linda Ronstadt: It's Not That Easy Being the Pretty Girl on the Block" Archived March 5, 2016, at the Wayback Machine Crawdaddy, June 1974.

^ a b Senoff, Pete (December 26, 1969). "Female Rocker Roundup: Linda Ronstadt, Lynn Carey, Lydia Pense, Nansi Nevins – Part 1". Fusion. Archived from the original on March 14, 2012. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ a b Senoff, Pete (December 26, 1969). "Female Rocker Roundup: Linda Ronstadt, Lynn Carey, Lydia Pense, Nansi Nevins – Part 2". Fusion Magazine. Archived from the original on March 14, 2012. Retrieved November 25, 2012. (Part 1 Archived March 14, 2012, at the Wayback Machine)

^ a b c d e Fong-Torres, Ben (1999). "Linda Ronstadt, Heartbreak on Wheels (Rolling Stone, March 27, 1975)". Not Fade Away: A Backstage Pass to 20 Years of Rock & Roll. Hal Leonard. pp. 209–220. ISBN 978-0-87930-590-1. Archived from the original on January 11, 2014. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ a b "And then there were two ... Linda Ronstadt talks about her friend Emmylou Harris, and about the unhappy end of the Trio project". Goldmine. August 2, 1996. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 11, 2007.

^ a b Ryder, Caroline (October 2007). "Peter Asher Interview". Swindle. Archived from the original on October 25, 2007. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ "Listen To Me: Buddy Holly Tribute CD Out Sept. 6th". AltSounds.com. July 26, 2011. Archived from the original on October 3, 2012. Retrieved July 26, 2011.

^ "Gypsy Eyes, Interview 1968". Cleveland Scene. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.

^ "Sexy new sweetheart for country western". Country Western Stars. March 1970. Archived from the original on January 9, 2008. Retrieved April 8, 2008.

^ Varga, George (November 21, 2004). "A 'song interpreter' for her times: Linda Ronstadt is ready to give jazz another whirl". U-T San Diego. Archived from the original on December 25, 2008. Retrieved August 1, 2008.

^ a b "'Courageous' singer plunges back into pop-music mainstream". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on November 6, 2012. Retrieved April 6, 2008.

^ a b "Artists: Linda Ronstadt Bio, Pictures, Video". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on December 2, 2017. Retrieved November 24, 2012.

^ "Linda Ronstadt's New Old Flame- Mexican Music 1. "I'm Not Good at Doing What I'm Told"". American Way. April 1, 1988. Archived from the original on May 9, 2008. Retrieved July 31, 2008.

^ Caffery, Joshua Clegg (July 26, 2006). "Songbird Sisters: South Louisiana's Ann Savoy teams up with pop icon Linda Ronstadt for their new CD, Adieu False Heart". The Independent Weekly. Archived from the original on September 28, 2007. Retrieved May 13, 2007.

^ "Everlasting Linda (Interview 17 June 1998 in Tucson, AZ)". Linda Ronstadt. Archived from the original on September 28, 2007. Retrieved July 6, 2007.

^ Greeley, Andrew (1989). "14:Ronstadt and Mellencamp: The Search for Roots". God in Popular Culture. Thomas More Press. p. 214-. ISBN 978-0-88347-234-7. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ "Cashbox". Special Decade Award. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved June 24, 2007.

^ Kaye, Elizabeth. "Linda Ronstadt: Why Is She the Queen of Lonely?". Redbook. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ a b "Linda Down The Wind". Time (subscription required). February 28, 1977. Archived from the original on September 28, 2008. Retrieved August 2, 2008.

^ a b Windeler, Robert (November 17, 1975). "When Will She Be Loved? Linda Ronstadt Finds the Time, at Last, Is Now". People. Archived from the original on January 7, 2007. Retrieved May 18, 2007.

^ Caulfield, Keith (April 18, 2014). "Linda Ronstadt Rocks Highest-Charting Album in 24 Years". Billboard. Archived from the original on August 27, 2014. Retrieved December 8, 2014.

^ a b c d e f g h i RIAA. "RIAA – Gold & Platinum". Recording Industry Association of America. Archived from the original on February 12, 2018. Retrieved February 28, 2016.

^ a b c d e f Bronson, Fred. The Billboard Book of Number 1 Hits. ISBN 0-8230-7677-6

^ "The GRAMMYs: Past Winners Search". Archived from the original on December 25, 2010. Retrieved February 28, 2016.

^ "Billboard Dec 3, 1977". Billboard. Vol. 121, no. 2. December 3, 1977. p. 65. Retrieved February 14, 2024.

^ "Billboard Jan 17, 2009". Billboard. Vol. 121, no. 2. January 17, 2009. p. 37. ISSN 0006-2510. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved December 20, 2015.

^ "Ronstadt Facts, Investigative International Sales". Linda Ronstadt Record Sales Information Page (German Site). Archived from the original on November 8, 2010. Retrieved April 17, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt Singing the National Anthem at Game three of World Series". Archived from the original on July 22, 2013. Retrieved August 11, 2007 – via YouTube.

^ Rockwell, John (October 14, 1977). "Linda Ronstadt: Her Soft-Core Charms". New Times. Archived from the original on October 13, 2014. Retrieved April 26, 2014.

^ Rockwell, John. "Living in the USA". In Greil Marcus (ed.). Stranded – Rock and Roll for a Desert Island. Archived from the original on December 5, 2007. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ a b "Homecoming Queen, April 1995". Mojo. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 11, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". CBS News. December 5, 2004. Archived from the original on August 9, 2007. Retrieved July 12, 2007.

^ "Congratulations". Billboard. December 23, 1978. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved June 24, 2007.

^ "Tour Reflections and Simple Dreams". The Hit Parader Interview. March 1978. Archived from the original on October 3, 2015. Retrieved December 29, 2010.

^ "Ronstadt and Rolling Stones, July 21, 1978". Photos. iorr.org forum. Archived from the original on June 13, 2011. Retrieved December 9, 2010.

^ "Why Linda Ronstadt Still Matters to Tucson". September 12, 2013. Archived from the original on May 29, 2015. Retrieved May 28, 2015.

^ "Rolling Stones U.S. Tour 1978". MyEtymology.com/SpeedyLook. July 21, 1978. Archived from the original on July 14, 2011. Retrieved December 9, 2010.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: unfit URL (link)

^ "Linda Ronstadt: Black & White Photo Aug 16, 1978 New Haven Veterans Memorial Coliseum (New Haven, CT)" Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine, wolfgangsvault.com

^ a b "The Inflation Calculator". The following form adjusts any given amount of money for inflation, according to the Consumer Price Index. Archived from the original on May 29, 2008. Retrieved August 10, 2009.

^ a b c Ward, Ed (February 21, 1978). "The Queens of Rock: Ronstadt, Mitchell, Simon and Nicks talk of their men, music and life on the road". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 16, 2015. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ "On the Charts and in Men's Hearts Linda Ronstadt is No. 1 With a Bullet". People. October 24, 1977. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ "Years after giving up singing, Linda Ronstadt is back on the charts with 'Live in Hollywood'". Los Angeles Times. February 9, 2019. Archived from the original on July 15, 2019. Retrieved July 15, 2019.

^ "Pat Benatar: Rock's Reluctant Sex Symbol". Record Review, December 1980. Archived from the original on September 28, 2007. Retrieved July 5, 2007.

^ "Rock Queen Conquers Broadway and Lives Happily Ever After". Hit Parader. September 1981. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". Internet Broadway Database. Archived from the original on October 15, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.http://www.ibdb.com/Person/View/58306 Archived March 21, 2016, at the Wayback Machine

^ Kroll, Jack (December 10, 1984). "A Pop Star Goes Puccini". Newsweek. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt Live. On Radio [advertisement]". Billboard. The Source (NBC). 1982. Archived from the original on November 28, 2007. Retrieved November 4, 2007.

^ "Linda Ronstadt's Canciones". Internet Broadway Database. Archived from the original on July 13, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.http://www.ibdb.com/Person/View/58306 Archived March 21, 2016, at the Wayback Machine

^ Saitowitz, Paul (May 31, 2007). "Linda Ronstadt to Play at Fantasy Springs". Press-Enterprise. Riverside, California. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved June 6, 2007.

^ "What's New with Linda Ronstadt? She's Singing Her Love Songs to Star Wars Czar George Lucas". People. March 26, 1984. Archived from the original on February 27, 2012. Retrieved November 24, 2012.

^ Latham, Aaron (August 18, 1983). "Linda Ronstadt: Snow White in South Africa". Rolling Stone. Retrieved January 29, 2013. (subscription required)

^ Christgau, Robert (1990) "Subjects for Further Research" Archived March 27, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. Christgau's Record Guide: The '80s Pantheon Books, ISBN 0-679-73015-X (via robertchristgau.com). Retrieved January 29, 2013.

^ Santoro, Gene (March 12, 1988). "Miriam Makeba. (Music) (column)"[dead link]. The Nation

^ Wilson, John M. (May 19, 1985). "UN`s `Register` Of Performers Raises Blacklist Spectre In S. Africa Boycott" . Chicago Tribune. Retrieved January 29, 2013.

^ Fricke, David (October 23, 1986). "Paul Simon: African Odyssey". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on August 2, 2022. Retrieved April 29, 2020.

^ DeYoung, Bill. "Goldmine, #589, February 21, 2003". Home at Last: The Journey of Linda Ronstadt. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved July 31, 2008.

^ Boone, M. (July 18, 2007). "Great Musicians and Their Legions of Paying Fans Deserve a Great Venue". Gazette (Montreal). Archived from the original on October 15, 2007. Retrieved July 20, 2007.

^ Cocks, Jay; Worrell, Denise (September 26, 1983). "Linda Leads the Band". Time. Archived from the original on November 7, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2009.

^ Bloom, Steve (July 1985). "An Intimate Conversation with Linda Ronstadt". DownBeat. Archived from the original on May 9, 2008. Retrieved August 18, 2008.

^ a b "The Peter Levinson Interview". Jerry Jazz Musician. April 20, 2002. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved June 14, 2007.

^ Varga, George (November 2004). "A 'song interpreter' for her times". U-T San Diego. Archived from the original on December 25, 2008. Retrieved August 1, 2008.

^ "Music: Linda Leads the Band". Time (subscription required). September 26, 1983. Archived from the original on March 7, 2008. Retrieved September 29, 2007.

^ a b "Peter Levinson (Interview)". jerryjazzmusician.com. April 20, 2002. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved June 14, 2007.

^ a b Holden, Stephen (September 4, 1983). "Linda Ronstadt Celebrate the Golden Age of Pop". The New York Times. Archived from the original on March 5, 2016. Retrieved May 10, 2007.

^ Griffith, James S. "The Singing Ronstadts and Canciones de mi Padre – A Musical Family". Tucson'sRonstadtFamily. Archived from the original on June 15, 2007. Retrieved May 30, 2007.

^ "American Way". Linda Ronstadt's New Old Flame- Mexican Music. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved May 7, 2007.

^ Herbst, Peter. "The Rolling Stone Interview". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 22, 2006. Retrieved October 19, 2006.

^ "GRAMMY Hall Of Fame Welcomes 2021 Inductions: A Tribe Called Quest, Billie Holiday, Journey, Patti Smith, Bruce Springsteen And More". Recording Academy. December 21, 2020. Archived from the original on March 1, 2021. Retrieved February 16, 2021.

^ "Artist Linda Ronstadt". Recording Academy Grammy Awards. Archived from the original on January 2, 2020. Retrieved October 23, 2018.

^ Thibodeaux, Ron (February 11, 2007). "Home Grown". The Times-Picayune.

^ Suzuki, Hisataka; MacKenzie, Shiona (November 9, 2001). "John Lennon Super Live – Japan". Dream Power. Archived from the original on May 28, 2007. Retrieved May 12, 2007.

^ Lannert, John (March 30, 1993). "Secada Lead Latin Noms Following Grammy Win". Billboard. Vol. 105, no. 10. p. 10. Archived from the original on January 3, 2016. Retrieved January 3, 2013.

^ "The Eagles to Perform at Staples Center". Staples Center. May 6, 1999. Archived from the original on September 28, 2007. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ Linda Ronstadt Archived October 24, 2016, at the Wayback Machine Rock on the Net.

^ Mansfield, Brian (August 23, 2013). "Linda Ronstadt has Parkinson's Disease – The Grammy-Winning Singer Revealed Her Condition to AARP Friday" Archived August 18, 2017, at the Wayback Machine. USA Today. Retrieved September 4, 2013.

^ Brown, Jeffrey; Jackson, Lena I. (October 5, 2022). "Singer Linda Ronstadt reflects on her roots in new book". PBS NewsHour. PBS. Archived from the original on October 6, 2022. Retrieved October 5, 2022.

^ " Linda Ronstadt Archived August 24, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. "Linda Ronstadt : inducted in 2014 | The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum".

^ "Sally Field, Linda Ronstadt and 'Sesame Street' Among 2019 Kennedy Center Honorees". Variety. July 18, 2019. Archived from the original on July 24, 2019. Retrieved July 25, 2019.

^ Kelly Presnell (May 8, 2022). "The Tucson Music Hall renamed for Grammy and Emmy Award winner Linda Ronstadt". The Arizona Daily Star. Archived from the original on May 8, 2022. Retrieved May 8, 2022.

^ "The RS 500 Greatest Albums of All Time" Archived January 4, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. Rolling Stone.

^ "Linda Ronstadt – Hit Parade Hall of Fame". March 4, 2016. Archived from the original on March 4, 2016. Retrieved August 24, 2018.

^ "Homecoming Queen". Mojo. April 1995. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 13, 2007.

^ Bailey, Rich (January 2002). "Dennis James interview". Archived from the original on March 17, 2007. Retrieved May 8, 2007.

^ McAleer, Dave (2001). The Book of Singles – Top 20 Charts 1984 to Present Day. ISBN 0-87930-666-1

^ "The 200 Greatest Singers of All Time". Rolling Stone. January 1, 2023. Retrieved August 31, 2023.

^ Martoccio, Angie (March 16, 2021). "The Many Lives of Judee Sill". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on March 16, 2021. Retrieved May 21, 2024.

^ Mathews, Tom; Kasindorf, Martin; Huck, Janet (April 23, 1979). "The Pop Politics of Jerry Brown – The Ballad of Jerry and Linda". Newsweek. Archived from the original on December 5, 2007. Retrieved November 12, 2006.

^ "Movie Star Jim Carrey Stops By" (Interview). Interviewed by Howard Stern. October 28, 2014. Archived from the original on October 31, 2014. Retrieved November 4, 2014.

^ a b Schwartz, Jonathan. "Linda Ronstadt – Checking in with the Ex-Flower Child at Home in Tucson". Us Weekly. Archived from the original on October 8, 2007. Retrieved May 5, 2007.

^ Fink, Mitchell (September 16, 1991). "The Insider". People Weekly. Vol. 1991, no. 33. p. 33. Singer Linda Ronstadt quietly became a single parent earlier this year. She has adopted an infant girl and named her Mary Clementine Ronstadt.

^ a b c Walsh, Diana (September 25, 1997). "Linda Ronstadt home for sale". San Francisco Examiner. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ Harata, Wayne (March 31, 2006). "Linda Ronstadt lets wisdom strike notes" Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. The Honolulu Advertiser. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ Knobler, Peter. "Linda Ronstadt: It's Not That Easy Being the Pretty Girl on the Block" Archived March 5, 2016, at the Wayback Machine Crawdaddy, June 1974

^ Meline, Gabe (January 11, 2024). "Linda Ronstadt to Be Portrayed by Selena Gomez in New Biopic | KQED". www.kqed.org. Archived from the original on February 13, 2024. Retrieved May 21, 2024.

^ "The 00-42 Linda Ronstadt Signature Edition" (PDF). The Sounding Board. Martin & Co. January 2009. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 5, 2016. Retrieved February 28, 2016.

^ "Quick Takes: Linda Ronstadt plans memoir". Los Angeles Times. July 29, 2011. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved August 7, 2011.

^ Deutsch, Lindsay (July 29, 2011). "Trailblazing rocker Linda Ronstadt to publish memoir". USA Today. Archived from the original on September 9, 2012. Retrieved August 7, 2011.

^ "AUTHORS 1 - 1 of 1: Ronstadt, Linda". Simon & Schuster. August 24, 2013. Archived from the original on August 24, 2013. Retrieved August 24, 2013.

^ Mansfield, Brian (August 23, 2013). "Linda Ronstadt has Parkinson's Disease". USA Today. Archived from the original on August 26, 2013. Retrieved August 24, 2013.

^ "Linda Ronstadt Says She Has Parkinson's Disease". CBS San Francisco Bay Area. August 24, 2013. Archived from the original on August 24, 2013. Retrieved August 24, 2013.

^ Asked about her religious beliefs on The Tavis Smiley Show (September 26, 2013), she replied, "I'm a spiritual atheist."

^ a b Rothschild, Matthew (July 21, 2004). "The Progressive". Linda Ronstadt Gets the Hook at Aladdin. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved May 12, 2007.

^ Weatherford, Mike (July 20, 2004). "Aladdin officials defend eviction of singer after political comments". Las Vegas Review-Journal. Archived from the original on September 23, 2012. Retrieved December 13, 2012.

^ "Open Letter to Bill Timmins, President Aladdin Casino and Hotels". Michael Moore. Archived from the original on March 19, 2006. Retrieved June 24, 2007.

^ "Desperadoes". The New York Times. July 21, 2004. Archived from the original on May 18, 2013. Retrieved May 12, 2007.

^ Dunham, Nancy (August 14, 2007). "Interview: Linda Ronstadt". Blogcritics. Archived from the original on October 14, 2008. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ Selvin, Joel (July 28, 2006). "Linda Ronstadt, at 60, is back in San Francisco, raising kids and singing what she wants to sing". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on June 20, 2012. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ "Linda Ronstadt draws readers' ire". Arizona Daily Star. June 7, 2007. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved November 24, 2012.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)

^ Burch, Cathalena E. (June 2, 2007). "Ronstadt: Dust drove me away". Arizona Daily Star. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013. Retrieved November 25, 2012.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)

^ Stewart, Jenny (August 26, 2009). "Linda Ronstadt's Gay Mission". Planet Out. Archived from the original on March 29, 2012. Retrieved April 30, 2010.

^ Lemons, Stephen (December 29, 2009). "Linda Ronstadt Calls Joe Arpaio 'a Sadistic Man', Will Participate in Anti-Arpaio Human Rights March Saturday, January 16". Phoenix New Times. Archived from the original on February 6, 2010. Retrieved March 21, 2010.

^ Cooper, Jonathan J.; Davenport, Paul (April 30, 2010). "Linda Ronstadt joins group filing suit against Arizona law". The Christian Science Monitor. Associated Press. Archived from the original on October 22, 2012. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ Fischer, Howard (April 29, 2010). "2 lawsuits challenge Arizona's immigration law". Arizona Daily Star. Capitol Media Services. Archived from the original on May 3, 2010. Retrieved April 30, 2010.

^ Strand, Michael (October 1, 2007). "Ex-Interior Department secretary says The Land Institute on right track". Salina Journal. Archived from the original on December 24, 2008. Retrieved November 25, 2012.

^ https://www.billboard.com/lists/musicians-endorsing-kamala-harris-president-2024/james-taylor-2/

^ Bedard, Paul; Schwab, Nikki (March 31, 2009). "Linda Ronstadt, Wynton Marsalis, and Josh Groban Pitch Congress". Submitted by Linda Ronstadt Singer House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment & Related Agencies. Archived from the original on March 18, 2012. Retrieved March 19, 2012.

^ Lornell, Kip; Ronstadt, Linda (2004). The NPR Curious Listener's Guide to American Folk Music. Perigee Trade. ISBN 978-0-399-53033-3.

^ Ronstadt, Linda (Introduction). Giel, Kate (ed.). "Classic Ferrington Guitars". Barnes & Noble. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved May 17, 2007.

^ "Past Inductions – 2007 Induction". Arizona Music & Entertainment Hall Of Fame. Archived from the original on June 17, 2019. Retrieved September 13, 2019.

^ "2008 NCLR ALMA Awards Recipients". National Council of La Raza. Archived from the original on February 27, 2012. Retrieved December 13, 2012.

^ Brown, Patricia Leigh (September 19, 2008). "Once a Rock Star, Now a Matriarch of Mariachi". The New York Times. Archived from the original on January 9, 2018. Retrieved April 5, 2009.

^ a b "Opinion: Arts Advocacy Day testimony from Linda Ronstadt". The Mercury News. March 30, 2009. Archived from the original on July 1, 2018. Retrieved September 13, 2019.

^ Swed, Mark (April 1, 2009). "Linda Ronstadt hails Gustavo Dudamel in testimony on Capitol Hill". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on April 4, 2009. Retrieved April 5, 2009.

^ "Smokey Robinson at Commencement May 9". Berklee College of Music. Archived from the original on April 16, 2009. Retrieved April 14, 2009.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". The Recording Academy. Archived from the original on August 27, 2021. Retrieved August 27, 2021.

^ Morris, Christopher (July 26, 2011). "Ronstadt Draws Lifetime Award – Latin Recording Academy Also Honors Feliciano". Variety. Archived from the original on November 8, 2012. Retrieved September 4, 2013.

^ "Linda Ronstadt". Television Academy. Archived from the original on August 27, 2021. Retrieved August 27, 2021.

^ "ALMA Award". September 13, 2008. Archived from the original on July 7, 2015. Retrieved August 1, 2011 – via YouTube.

^ Coto, Juan Carlos (May 28, 1989). "Univision Launches Latin Music Awards". The Miami Herald.

^ "Ana Gabriel leads nominees for Latin Music Awards". Billboard. Vol. 104, no. 13. March 28, 1992.

^ Lannert, John (March 30, 1993). "Secada Lead Latin Noms Following Grammy Win". Billboard. Vol. 105, no. 10. p. 10. Archived from the original on April 16, 2023. Retrieved January 3, 2013.


External links[edit]


Linda Ronstadt  at Wikipedia's sister projects

Media from CommonsNews from WikinewsQuotations from WikiquoteTexts from WikisourceTextbooks from WikibooksResources from WikiversityData from Wikidata

Official website
Linda Ronstadt at IMDb
Linda Ronstadt at the Internet Broadway Database 
Linda Ronstadt at the Internet Off-Broadway Database
Image of Linda Ronstadt reclining on a porch railing in Los Angeles, California, 1974. Los Angeles Times Photographic Archive (Collection 1429). UCLA Library Special Collections, Charles E. Young Research Library, University of California, Los Angeles.
vteLinda RonstadtAlbumsSinglesPerformancesStone Poneys albums
The Stone Poneys featuring Linda Ronstadt
Evergreen, Volume 2
Linda Ronstadt, Stone Poneys and Friends, Vol. III
Studio albums
Hand Sown ... Home Grown
Silk Purse
Linda Ronstadt
Don't Cry Now
Heart Like a Wheel
Prisoner in Disguise
Hasten Down the Wind
Simple Dreams
Living in the USA
Mad Love
Get Closer
What's New
Lush Life
For Sentimental Reasons
Canciones de Mi Padre
Cry Like a Rainstorm, Howl Like the Wind
Mas Canciones
Frenesí
Winter Light
Feels Like Home
Dedicated to the One I Love
We Ran
A Merry Little Christmas
Hummin' to Myself
Collaborations
Trio
Santiago
Trio II
Western Wall: The Tucson Sessions
Adieu False Heart
The Complete Trio Collection
Compilations
Different Drum
Greatest Hits
Greatest Hits, Volume 2
The Very Best of Linda Ronstadt
Mi Jardin Azul: Las Canciones Favoritas
Duets
Live Albums
Live in Hollywood
Hit singles
"Different Drum"
"Long, Long Time"
"Silver Threads and Golden Needles"
"You're No Good"/"I Can't Help It (If I'm Still in Love with You)"
"When Will I Be Loved"/"It Doesn't Matter Anymore"
"Heat Wave"/"Love Is a Rose"
"The Tracks of My Tears"
"That'll Be the Day"
"Someone to Lay Down Beside Me"
"Lose Again"
"Crazy"
"Blue Bayou"
"It's So Easy"
"Poor Poor Pitiful Me"
"Tumbling Dice"
"Back in the U.S.A."
"Ooo Baby Baby"
"Just One Look"
"Love Me Tender"
"Alison"
"How Do I Make You"
"Hurt So Bad"
"I Can't Let Go"
"I Knew You When"
"What's New?"
"Somewhere Out There"
"Don't Know Much"
"All My Life"
"When Something Is Wrong With My Baby"
"Close Your Eyes"
"Walk On"
Other songs
"Carmelita"
"Desperado"
"Mr. Sandman"
Related topics
"Mr. Plow"
FM (film)
The Pirates of Penzance (1983 film)
An American Tail (soundtrack)
 Category
Awards for Linda Ronstadt
vteAmerican Music Award for Favorite Pop/Rock Female Artist
Helen Reddy (1974)
Olivia Newton-John (1975)
Olivia Newton-John (1976)
Olivia Newton-John (1977)
Linda Ronstadt (1978)
Linda Ronstadt (1979)
Donna Summer (1980)
Barbra Streisand (1981)
Pat Benatar (1982)
Olivia Newton-John (1983)
Pat Benatar (1984)
Cyndi Lauper (1985)
Tina Turner (1986)
Whitney Houston (1987)
Whitney Houston (1988)
Whitney Houston (1989)
Paula Abdul (1990)
Janet Jackson (1991)
Paula Abdul (1992)
Mariah Carey (1993)
Whitney Houston (1994)
Mariah Carey (1995)
Mariah Carey (1996)
Alanis Morissette (1997)
Celine Dion (1998)
Celine Dion (1999)
Shania Twain (2000)
Faith Hill (2001)
Janet Jackson (2002)
Sheryl Crow (2003)
Jennifer Lopez (2003)
Sheryl Crow (2004)
Gwen Stefani (2005)
Kelly Clarkson (2006)
Fergie (2007)
Rihanna (2008)
Taylor Swift (2009)
Lady Gaga (2010)
Adele (2011)
Katy Perry (2012)
Taylor Swift (2013)
Katy Perry (2014)
Ariana Grande (2015)
Selena Gomez (2016)
Lady Gaga (2017)
Taylor Swift (2018)
Taylor Swift (2019)
Taylor Swift (2020)
Taylor Swift (2021)
Taylor Swift (2022)

vtePrimetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program1959–1975
Perry Como / Dinah Shore (1959)
Harry Belafonte (1960)
Fred Astaire (1961)
Carol Burnett (1962)
Carol Burnett (1963)
Danny Kaye (1964)
No Award (1965)
No Award (1966)
Art Carney (1967)
Art Carney / Pat Paulsen (1968)
Arte Johnson / Harvey Korman (1969)
No Award (1970)
Harvey Korman (1971)
Harvey Korman (1972)
Tim Conway (1973)
Harvey Korman / Brenda Vaccaro (1974)
Jack Albertson / Cloris Leachman (1975)
1976–1990
Chevy Chase / Vicki Lawrence (1976)
Tim Conway / Rita Moreno (1977)
Tim Conway / Gilda Radner (1978)
No Award (1979)
No Award (1980)
Sarah Vaughan (1981)
Nell Carter / André De Shields (1982)
Leontyne Price (1983)
Cloris Leachman (1984)
George Hearn (1985)
Whitney Houston (1986)
Robin Williams (1987)
Robin Williams (1988)
Linda Ronstadt (1989)
Tracey Ullman (1990)
1991–2008
Billy Crystal (1991)
Bette Midler (1992)
Dana Carvey (1993)
Tracey Ullman (1994)
Barbra Streisand (1995)
Tony Bennett (1996)
Bette Midler (1997)
Billy Crystal (1998)
John Leguizamo (1999)
Eddie Izzard (2000)
Barbra Streisand (2001)
Sting (2002)
Wayne Brady (2003)
Elaine Stritch (2004)
Hugh Jackman (2005)
Barry Manilow (2006)
Tony Bennett (2007)
Don Rickles (2008)

vteGrammy Award for Best Music Film1983–1986
Duran Duran – Duran Duran (1983)
Making Michael Jackson's Thriller – Michael Jackson (1984)
Huey Lewis & The News: The Heart of Rock 'n Roll – Huey Lewis and the News (1985)
Bring On the Night – Sting (1986)
Best PerformanceMusic Video  (1987−1988)
The Prince's Trust All-Star Rock Concert – Various Artists (1987)
"Where the Streets Have No Name" – U2 (1988)
1989–2009
Rhythm Nation 1814 – Janet Jackson (1989)
Please Hammer, Don't Hurt 'Em: The Movie – MC Hammer (1990)
Live! – Blond Ambition World Tour 90 – Madonna (1991)
Diva – Annie Lennox (1992)
Ten Summoner's Tales – Sting (1993)
Zoo TV: Live from Sydney – U2 (1994)
Secret World Live – Peter Gabriel (1995)
The Beatles Anthology – The Beatles (1996)
Jagged Little Pill, Live – Alanis Morissette (1997)
American Masters: Lou Reed: Rock & Roll Heart – Lou Reed (1998)
Band of Gypsys: Live at Fillmore East – Jimi Hendrix (1999)
Gimme Some Truth: The Making of John Lennon's Imagine Album – John Lennon (2000)
Recording The Producers: A Musical Romp with Mel Brooks – Mel Brooks (2001)
Westway to the World – The Clash (2002)
Legend – Sam Cooke (2003)
Concert for George – Various Artists (2004)
No Direction Home – Bob Dylan (2005)
Wings for Wheels: The Making of Born to Run – Bruce Springsteen (2006)
The Confessions Tour – Madonna (2007)
Runnin' Down a Dream – Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers (2008)
The Beatles Love – All Together Now – The Beatles and Cirque du Soleil (2009)
2010–present
When You're Strange: A Film About The Doors – The Doors (2010)
Back and Forth – Foo Fighters (2011)
Big Easy Express – Mumford & Sons, Edward Sharpe & The Magnetic Zeros and Old Crow Medicine Show (2012)
Live Kisses – Paul McCartney (2013)
20 Feet from Stardom – Darlene Love, Merry Clayton, Lisa Fischer & Judith Hill (2014)
Amy – Amy Winehouse (2015)
The Beatles: Eight Days a Week - The Touring Years – The Beatles (2016)
The Defiant Ones – Various Artists (2017)
Quincy – Quincy Jones (2018)
Homecoming: A Film by Beyoncé – Beyoncé (2019)
Linda Ronstadt: The Sound of My Voice – Linda Ronstadt (2020)
Summer of Soul – Various Artists (2021)
Jazz Fest: A New Orleans Story – Various Artists (2022)
Moonage Daydream – David Bowie (2023)

vteGrammy Award for Best Musical Album for Children1993–2000
Aladdin: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack – Alan Menken, Tim Rice (producers) and Various Artists (1993)
The Lion King: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack – Mark Mancina, Jay Rifkin, Chris Thomas, Hans Zimmer (producers) and Various Artists (1994)
Sleepy Time Lullabys – Barbara Bailey Hutchison (1995)
Dedicated to the One I Love – Linda Ronstadt (1996)
All Aboard! – John Denver (1997)
Elmopalooza! – Various Artists (1998)
The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland – Various Artists (1999)
Woody's Roundup: A Rootin' Tootin' Collection of Woody's Favorite Songs – Riders in the Sky (2000)
2001–2010
Elmo & the Orchestra – Various Artists (2001)
Monsters, Inc. Scream Factory Favorites – Riders in the Sky (2002)
Bon Appétit! – Cathy Fink & Marcy Marxer (2003)
cELLAbration! A Tribute to Ella Jenkins – Cathy Fink & Marcy Marxer (2004)
Songs from the Neighborhood: The Music of Mister Rogers – Various Artists (2005)
Catch That Train! – Dan Zanes and Friends (2006)
The Muppets: A Green and Red Christmas – The Muppets (2007)
Here Come the 123s – They Might Be Giants (2008)
Family Time – Ziggy Marley (2009)
Tomorrow's Children – Pete Seeger (2010)
In 2011, the category was merged back into Best Children's Album.
vteKennedy Center Honorees (2010s)2010
Merle Haggard
Jerry Herman
Bill T. Jones
Paul McCartney
Oprah Winfrey
2011
Barbara Cook
Neil Diamond
Yo-Yo Ma
Sonny Rollins
Meryl Streep
2012
Buddy Guy
Dustin Hoffman
David Letterman
Led Zeppelin
Natalia Makarova
2013
Martina Arroyo
Herbie Hancock
Billy Joel
Shirley MacLaine
Carlos Santana
2014
Al Green
Tom Hanks
Patricia McBride
Sting
Lily Tomlin
2015
Carole King
George Lucas
Rita Moreno
Seiji Ozawa
Cicely Tyson
2016
Martha Argerich
Eagles
Al Pacino
Mavis Staples
James Taylor
2017
Carmen de Lavallade
Gloria Estefan
LL Cool J
Norman Lear
Lionel Richie
2018
Cher
Philip Glass
Reba McEntire
Wayne Shorter
Hamilton (Lin-Manuel Miranda, Thomas Kail, Alex Lacamoire, and Andy Blankenbuehler)
2019
Earth, Wind & Fire
Sally Field
Linda Ronstadt
Sesame Street
Michael Tilson Thomas

Complete list
1970s
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s
2020s

vteLatin Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award2000s
2004: Antonio Aguilar / Roberto Carlos / Willie Colón / José José / Mercedes Sosa
2005: Rocío Dúrcal / Generoso Jiménez / Jorge Ben Jor / Sérgio Mendes / Johnny Pacheco / Sandro
2006: León Gieco / Graciela / César Camargo Mariano / Richie Ray & Bobby Cruz / Paloma San Basilio / Alberto Vázquez / Johnny Ventura
2007: Alberto Cortez / Lucho Gatica / Olga Guillot / Os Paralamas do Sucesso / Los Tigres del Norte / Chavela Vargas
2008: Vikki Carr / Cheo Feliciano / Astrud Gilberto / Angélica María / María Dolores Pradera / Estela Raval
2009: Cándido Camero / Beth Carvalho / Charly García / Tania Libertad / Marco Antonio Muñiz / Juan Romero
2010s
2010: João Donato / Las Hermanas Márquez / Armando Manzanero / Joseíto Mateo / Jorge Oñate / Susana Rinaldi
2011: Joe Arroyo / Gal Costa / José Feliciano / Álex Lora / Les Luthiers / Rubén Rada / Linda Ronstadt
2012: Luz Casal / Leo Dan / Rita Moreno / Milton Nascimento / Daniela Romo / Poncho Sanchez / Toquinho
2013: Oscar D'León / Juan Formell / Roberto Menescal / Totó la Momposina / Palito Ortega / Eddie Palmieri / Miguel Ríos
2014: Willy Chirino / César Costa / Carlos do Carmo / Dúo Dinámico / Los Lobos / Valeria Lynch / Ney Matogrosso
2015: Gato Barbieri / Ana Belén / Ángela Carrasco / Djavan / El Gran Combo de Puerto Rico / Víctor Manuel / Pablo Milanés
2016: El Consorcio / Eugenia León / Ricardo Montaner / Ednita Nazario / Piero
2017: Lucecita Benítez / João Bosco / Ilan Chester / Víctor Heredia / Los del Río / Guadalupe Pineda / Cuco Valoy
2018: Erasmo Carlos / Dyango / Andy Montañez / José María Napoleón / Chucho Valdés / Wilfrido Vargas / Yuri
2019: Eva Ayllón / Joan Baez / José Cid / Lupita D'Alessio / Hugo Fattoruso / Pimpinela / Omara Portuondo / José Luis Rodríguez
2020s
2020
2021: Martinho da Vila / Emmanuel / Pete Escovedo / Sheila E. / Fito Páez / Milly Quezada / Joaquín Sabina / Gilberto Santa Rosa
2022: Rosario Flores / Myriam Hernández / Rita Lee / Amanda Miguel / Yordano
2023: Carmen Linares / Manuel Mijares / Arturo Sandoval / Simone / Soda Stereo / Ana Torroja
2024: Albita / Lolita Flores / Alejandro Lerner / Los Ángeles Azules / Draco Rosa / Lulu Santos

vteNational Medal of Arts recipients 2010s & 2020s2010
Robert Brustein
Van Cliburn
Mark di Suvero
Donald Hall
Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival
Quincy Jones
Harper Lee
Sonny Rollins
Meryl Streep
James Taylor
2011
Will Barnet
Rita Dove
Al Pacino
Emily Rauh Pulitzer
Martin Puryear
Mel Tillis
United Service Organization (USO)
André Watts
2012
Herb Alpert
Lin Arison
Joan Myers Brown
Renée Fleming
Ernest Gaines
Ellsworth Kelly
Tony Kushner
George Lucas
Elaine May
Laurie Olin
Allen Toussaint
Washington Performing Arts Society
2013
Julia Alvarez
Brooklyn Academy of Music
Joan Harris
Bill T. Jones
John Kander
Jeffrey Katzenberg
Maxine Hong Kingston
Albert Maysles
Linda Ronstadt
Billie Tsien & Tod Williams
James Turrell
2014
John Baldessari
Ping Chong
Míriam Colón
The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation
Sally Field
Ann Hamilton
Stephen King
Meredith Monk
George Shirley
University Musical Society
Tobias Wolff
2015
Mel Brooks
Sandra Cisneros
Eugene O'Neill Theater Center
Morgan Freeman
Philip Glass
Berry Gordy
Santiago Jiménez Jr.
Moisés Kaufman
Ralph Lemon
Audra McDonald
Luis Valdez
Jack Whitten
2019
Alison Krauss
Sharon Percy Rockefeller
The Musicians of the United States Military
Jon Voight
2020
Toby Keith
Ricky Skaggs
Mary Costa
Nick Ut
Earl A. Powell III
2021
Bruce Springsteen
Gladys Knight
Mindy Kaling
Julia Louis-Dreyfus
José Feliciano
Vera Wang
Joan Shigekawa
Judith Francisca Baca
Fred Eychaner
Antonio Martorell
The Billie Holiday Theatre
The International Association of Blacks in Dance

Complete list
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s

vteRock and Roll Hall of Fame – Class of 2014Performers
Peter Gabriel
Hall & Oates
Daryl Hall, John Oates
Kiss
Peter Criss, Ace Frehley, Gene Simmons, Paul Stanley
Nirvana
Kurt Cobain, Dave Grohl, Krist Novoselic
Linda Ronstadt
Cat Stevens
Non-performers(Ahmet Ertegun Award)
Brian Epstein
Andrew Loog Oldham
Award for Musical Excellence
E Street Band
Roy Bittan, Clarence Clemons, Danny Federici, Vini Lopez, Nils Lofgren, David Sancious, Patti Scialfa, Garry Tallent, Steven Van Zandt, Max Weinberg

Portals: Arts Biography Film Rock music Hispanic and Latino Americans
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataAustraliaCzech RepublicSpainNetherlandsNorwayPolandIsraelAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy AwardsEmmy AwardsPeopleTroveOtherIdRefSNAC



