This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately from the article and its talk page, especially if potentially libelous.Find sources: "Lloyd Maines" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)


Lloyd MainesLloyd Maines at Acoustical Cafe in Austin, TX (2019).Background informationBirth nameLloyd Wayne MainesBorn (1951-06-28) June 28, 1951 (age 73)Lubbock, Texas, U.S.GenresCountry, bluegrass, folk, alt-countryOccupation(s)Musician, producer, songwriterInstrument(s)Pedal steel guitar, dobro, guitar, mandolin, banjoYears active1976-presentMusical artist
Lloyd Wayne Maines (born June 28, 1951) is an American country music record producer, musician and songwriter. He was inducted into the Austin City Limits Hall of Fame as one of the first three members, the other two being Willie Nelson and Stevie Ray Vaughan. He is the father of Natalie Maines who is best known as the lead singer of The Chicks.


Life and career[edit]
Maines was born and raised in Lubbock, Texas, and is now based in Austin, Texas.
Arguably best known as a pedal steel player, Maines is a multi-instrumentalist who has also performed and/or recorded playing dobro, electric and acoustic guitar, mandolin, lap steel guitar, banjo and bell tree. He toured and recorded as a member of the Joe Ely Band and has also played with Jerry Jeff Walker, Guy Clark, Butch Hancock, Terry Allen, Jimmie Dale Gilmore, Golden Bear,[1] and other Texas musicians.  Maines was a member of The Maines Brothers Band in the late 1970s and early 1980s and has contributed to alt-country releases, including Uncle Tupelo's Anodyne and Wilco's debut, AM.
Maines began producing some of his own music, branching out beginning with other country artists, early on starting with Terry Allen's seminal 1979 album, Lubbock (On Everything).[2] He has produced and worked on recording projects with numerous artists, including the Bad Livers, Richard Buckner, Roger Creager, Anna Fermin's Trigger Gospel, Pat Green, Butch Hancock, Wayne Hancock, Terri Hendrix,[3] Rita Hosking, Ray Wylie Hubbard, Intocable, Robert Earl Keen, the Lost Gonzo Band, Bob Livingston, Charlie Robison, Owen Temple, Two Tons of Steel, Jerry Jeff Walker, The Waybacks, Dale Watson and Martin Zellar. He frequently tours with Terri Hendrix throughout the United States, and is a major part of her band and production as an artist.
Maines won a Grammy Award for Best Country Album in 2003 as producer of the album Home by The Chicks' (formerly known as the Dixie Chicks). As the father of Natalie Maines, lead singer of The Chicks, he was instrumental in bringing the current lineup of bandmates together in 1995, which jump-started their sudden popularity and change in sound. Susan Gibson's "Wide Open Spaces", which had been sent to Maines, proved to be a hit from their debut album, and has remained their signature song.
As of 2020, Lloyd Maines, on guitars, has accompanied singer/songwriter Terri Hendrix live and in recordings since 1997 and her second album.[3][better source needed]
Maines has twice been inducted into the West Texas Walk of Fame — in 1993 as a member of the Maines Brothers Band and in 2012 in his own name.

Lloyd Maines with Terri Hendrix at Cactus Cafe in Austin, TX (2013).
Lloyd Maines at Austin City Limits Music Festival (2006).
See also[edit]
Music of Austin
References[edit]


^ Golden Bear album credits, AllMusic

^ Harrington, AnnMarie (April 2002). "Lloyd Maines: A Driving Force In Texas Music". Take Country Back. Archived from the original on August 11, 2007. Retrieved September 3, 2007.

^ a b "Live from Wilory Farm Tonight!". Terri Hendrix. April 29, 2020. Retrieved April 29, 2020.


External links[edit]
Official website
Interview with Lloyd Maines
Complete Lloyd Maines discography
Archival Materials[edit]
Steve Maines papers, 1964-2015, at Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library, Texas Tech University
vteThe Chicks
Natalie Maines
Emily Strayer
Martie Maguire
Laura Lynch
Robin Lynn Macy
Studio albums
Thank Heavens for Dale Evans
Little Ol' Cowgirl
Shouldn't a Told You That
Wide Open Spaces
Fly
Home
Taking the Long Way
Gaslighter
Compilations
Playlist: The Very Best of Dixie Chicks
The Essential Dixie Chicks
Singles
"I Can Love You Better"
"There's Your Trouble"
"Wide Open Spaces"
"You Were Mine"
"Tonight the Heartache's on Me"
"Ready to Run"
"Cowboy Take Me Away"
"Goodbye Earl"
"Cold Day in July"
"Without You"
"If I Fall You're Going Down with Me"
"Heartbreak Town"
"Some Days You Gotta Dance"
"Long Time Gone"
"Landslide"
"Travelin' Soldier"
"Top of the World"
"I Hope"
"Not Ready to Make Nice"
"Everybody Knows"
"The Long Way Around"
"Daddy Lessons"
"Gaslighter"
Live recordings
An Evening with the Dixie Chicks
Top of the World Tour: Live (video)
Tours
Fly Tour
Top of the World Tour
Vote for Change
Accidents & Accusations Tour
Long Time Gone Tour
DCX MMXVI World Tour
The Chicks Tour
Related articles
Discography
Awards and nominations
Comments on George W. Bush
Dixie Chicks: Shut Up and Sing
Court Yard Hounds
"You Can't Hurry Love"
"Sin Wagon"
"Roly Poly"
"Soon You'll Get Better"
Collaborators
Lloyd Maines
David Grissom
Dan Wilson

Authority control databases InternationalVIAFNationalUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy Awards



