American singer-songwriter (born 1973)


Mark WillsWills performing at the Military Child Education Coalition conference in Atlanta onJune 29, 2005.Background informationBirth nameDaryl Mark Williams[1][2]Born (1973-08-08) August 8, 1973 (age 51)[2]Blue Ridge, Georgia, U.S.[2]OriginBlue Ridge, Georgia, U.S.GenresCountryOccupationSinger-songwriterInstrument(s)Vocals, guitarYears active1996–presentLabelsMercury Nashville,Equity Music Group,Tenacity, Big RedWebsitemarkwills.comMusical artist
Mark Wills (born Daryl Mark Williams; August 8, 1973)[3] is an American country music artist. Signed to Mercury Records between 1996 and 2003, he released five studio albums for the label – Mark Wills, Wish You Were Here, Permanently, Loving Every Minute, and And the Crowd Goes Wild – as well as a greatest hits package. In that same timespan, he charted sixteen singles on the Billboard country charts, all of which made the top 40. After leaving Mercury in 2003, he signed to Equity Music Group and charted three more singles. Two of these were later included on his sixth studio album, Familiar Stranger, which was released on the Tenacity label in 2008.
Of his albums, Wish You Were Here is the best-selling, with a platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America. This album's title track and the late 2002-early 2003 release "19 Somethin'" both reached No. 1; on the Hot Country Songs charts. Besides these, six more of his singles have reached top 10 on the chart: his debut single "Jacob's Ladder", "Places I've Never Been", "I Do (Cherish You)", "Don't Laugh at Me", "She's in Love", and a cover version of Brian McKnight's "Back at One". Two songs originally recorded by Wills, "Somebody" and "What Hurts the Most", were later hit singles for Reba McEntire, Jo O'Meara, Rascal Flatts, and Cascada respectively.
On December 21, 2018, Wills was invited to become the 218th member of the Grand Ole Opry. He was inducted on January 11, 2019.[4]


Early life[edit]
Wills was born in Blue Ridge, Georgia.[2]

Career[edit]
In his teenaged years, Wills played in garage bands, taking inspiration from rock groups such as Bon Jovi.[2] During his young adulthood, however, he began to take an interest in country music. He entered a local talent contest in Marietta, Georgia, at age 17, and after winning the contest, he began to perform locally.[2] From there, he went to work as a demo singer in Atlanta, Georgia, before doing the same in Nashville, Tennessee. While in Nashville, he was discovered by record producers Carson Chamberlain and Keith Stegall, who helped him sign to a recording contract with Mercury Records Nashville.[2]
Wills's self-titled debut album was released in 1996 under the production of Chamberlain and Stegall. Its lead-off single, "Jacob's Ladder", went to number six on the country charts. "High Low and in Between", the B-side to "Jacob's Ladder", was the next single, reaching number 33.[1] Finishing off the single releases was the number-five "Places I've Never Been".[1] Despite the success of its first and third singles, the album did not sell well,[2] and it peaked at  number 38 on the country albums charts.[2]
Wish You Were Here, Wills's second album, was his most commercially successful, earning a platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America. The lead-off single "I Do (Cherish You)" and its follow-up, "Don't Laugh at Me", both reached number two on the country charts, with the former bringing him to the Billboard Hot 100 for the first time.[1] Following the pair of number two-peaking songs was the album's title track. Co-written by Bill Anderson, Skip Ewing, and Debbie Moore, it became Wills's first number-one country hit in 1999.[1] Later that year, the boy band 98 Degrees covered "I Do (Cherish You)" on their album 98 Degrees and Rising. Following "Wish You Were Here" was "She's in Love", the final single from Wish You Were Here, which peaked at number seven. In 1998, Wills received an Academy of Country Music award for Top New Male Vocalist.

2000–2003[edit]
In 2000, he voiced the character of Huckleberry Finn in MGM's animated remake of Tom Sawyer, Wills's only film role to date. Also for the film, Wills and Lee Ann Womack, who plays the singing voice of Becky in the film,  sing the end title song "Never Ever and Forever" as a duet.
Wills's eighth chart entry was a cover of R&B singer Brian McKnight's 1998 hit single "Back at One". This cover was a top-five country hit for Wills in early 2000 and the first single from his third album, Permanently. This album was Wills's highest entry on the country albums charts, peaking at number three. Following "Back at One" was another R&B cover, this time of Brandy's 1999 single "Almost Doesn't Count". This cover reached the top 20, and was followed by "I Want to Know (Everything There Is to Know About You)", which reached  number 33. Permanently was certified gold by the RIAA. Unlike his previous albums, this album was produced entirely by Carson Chamberlain, as Stegall had left Mercury in 2000.
Loving Every Minute was the title of Wills's fourth studio album and its lead-off single. This song, co-written by Michael White, only peaked at number 18, however, and the album's other single – the Jamie O'Neal duet "I'm Not Gonna Do Anything Without You", which was also on O'Neal's debut album Shiver – reached number 31. Also included on this album was the song "Somebody", which later became a number-one hit in 2004 when Reba McEntire recorded it for her 2003 album Room to Breathe.
Wills's biggest chart hit, "19 Somethin'", was released in late 2002. It topped the country charts in early 2003, and stayed at number one for six weeks. The song was also his highest Hot 100 entry, peaking at  number 23. This song was the first of two newly recorded songs on his 2003 greatest hits album, which reprised all of his chart singles to that point except "High Low and in Between" and "I Want to Know (Everything There Is to Know About You)". The other new song on this album, "When You Think of Me", was a number-28 country hit in early 2003. Wills produced these two new tracks with Chris Lindsey.
And the Crowd Goes Wild, his fifth studio album, came later in 2003. This was his first full studio album, which he co-produced, again doing so with Chris Lindsey. Although the album itself peaked at number five on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart, its two singles only made the middle and lower top-40 regions on the Hot Country Songs chart. Its Jeffrey Steele-penned country rock and country rap-generated title track was the lead-off single, reaching number 29 on the country charts. Following it was "That's a Woman", which stopped at number 40. Like his previous studio release, this album included a song that later became a number-one hit for another artist: "What Hurts the Most", which was a number-one country and adult contemporary hit for the group Rascal Flatts when they covered it on their 2006 album Me and My Gang. This song was also a single for Jo O'Meara in 2005 and Cascada in 2007. Wills's own rendition was a minor hit on the Hot Digital Songs charts in 2006. Also included on And the Crowd Goes Wild was a cover of Ronnie Milsap's hit "Prisoner of the Highway", recorded as a duet with Milsap.

2006–present[edit]
Mark Wills in 2008
Due to the poor performance of And the Crowd Goes Wild, Wills left Mercury in 2004. In 2004, Wills also recorded a cover of Elvin Bishop's "Fooled Around and Fell in Love" for the southern rock tribute album Southern Rock Country Style. He did not record again until country singer Clint Black signed him to his Equity Music Group label in 2006. Wills's first release for the label was "Hank", which peaked at number 49 and was never included on an album. His first album for the label, titled Familiar Stranger, was originally slated for release in September 2007,[5] and was repeatedly pushed back due to the poor chart performance of "Take It All Out on Me" and "Days of Thunder." Tenacity Records then acquired the album and released it in 2008, issuing "The Things We Forget" as its third single. After this song came "Entertaining Angels", co-written by Willie Mack.  In late 2009, he released then a fifth single, "Crazy White Boy", written by Brett James and Blair Daly. Wills released the compilation album 2nd Time Around in July 2009, which comprises re-recordings of several Mercury singles.
Wills released a new single in January 2011 called "Looking for America", written by Bernie Nelson, Philip Douglas, and Jeremy Bussey.[6] It served as the title track to his 2011 album of the same name, released June 21, 2011, from Big Red Records and Tenacity Records.
He was invited by Vince Gill to become the 218th member of the Grand Ole Opry on December 21, 2018, and was inducted on January 11, 2019[4]

Personal life[edit]
In 1996, Wills married his wife, Kelly, whom he met at Atlanta's music club, Buckboard. They have two daughters.[7]
In November 2010, Wills was hospitalized for surgery after his large intestine ruptured. He was told that had he waited any longer to seek medical help, he would have died.[8]

Discography[edit]
Main article: Mark Wills discography
1996: Mark Wills
1998: Wish You Were Here
2000: Permanently
2001: Loving Every Minute
2003: And the Crowd Goes Wild
2008: Familiar Stranger
2011: Looking for America
Awards and nominations[edit]
Academy of Country Music Awards[edit]





Year

Nominee / work

Award

Result


1999

Mark Wills

Top New Male Vocalist

Won


"Don't Laugh at Me"

Song of the Year

Nominated


2003

"19 Somethin'"

Single Record of the Year

Nominated

Country Music Association Awards[edit]





Year

Nominee / work

Award

Result


1999

"Don't Laugh at Me"

Single of the Year

Nominated


Video of the Year

Nominated

Filmography[edit]


Film


Year

Film

Role

Notes


2000

Tom Sawyer

Huckleberry Finn

Direct-to-video


References[edit]


^ a b c d e Whitburn, Joel (2008). Hot Country Songs 1944 to 2008. Record Research, Inc. pp. 470–471. ISBN 978-0-89820-177-2.

^ a b c d e f g h i Erlewine, Stephen Thomas. "Mark Wills Biography". Allmusic. Retrieved December 24, 2010.

^ "Songwriter/Composer: Wills, Mark; Current Affiliation: GEMA CAE/IPI #: 247006588". BMI.

^ a b "Wills Invited To Join The Opry, Capps Celebrates 60". Nashville.com. December 23, 2018. Retrieved December 23, 2018.

^ "A Day of Thunder for Mark Wills". CMT. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved July 17, 2007.

^ "Mark Wills Releases New Song, "Looking For America"". Looking For America. Archived from the original on November 12, 2010. Retrieved December 11, 2010.

^ "Mark Wills". January 2020.

^ "Mark Wills Recovering After Life-Saving Surgery". The Boot. November 22, 2010. Retrieved May 30, 2016.


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Mark Wills.

Official website
vteMark WillsStudio albums
Mark Wills
Wish You Were Here
Permanently
Loving Every Minute
And the Crowd Goes Wild
Familiar Stranger
Looking for America
Compilation albums
Greatest Hits
Notable singles
"Jacob's Ladder"
"High Low and In Between"
"Places I've Never Been"
"I Do (Cherish You)"
"Don't Laugh at Me"
"Wish You Were Here"
"She's in Love"
"Back at One"
"Almost Doesn't Count"
"Loving Every Minute"
"I'm Not Gonna Do Anything Without You"
"19 Somethin'"
"And the Crowd Goes Wild"
Other songs
"Somebody"
"What Hurts the Most"
Related topics
Discography

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicArtistsMusicBrainz



