American musician (born 1958)
For his eponymous album, see Marty Stuart (album).


Marty StuartStuart at MerleFest in April 2012Background informationBirth nameJohn Marty Stuart[1][2]Born (1958-09-30) September 30, 1958 (age 65)Philadelphia, Mississippi, U.S.[3]GenresCountrybluegrassOccupationsSingersongwriterInstrumentsVocalsguitarmandolinYears active1968–presentLabelsSugar Hill, Columbia, MCA, Universal South, Superlatone, Ridge RunnerMember ofThe Fabulous SuperlativesFormerly ofThe Rock & Roll Cowboy BandSpouses

Cindy Cash
​ ​(m. 1983; div. 1988)​

Connie Smith ​(m. 1997)​
Websitemartystuart.netMusical artist
John Marty Stuart (born September 30, 1958) is an American country and bluegrass music singer, songwriter, and musician. Active since 1968, Stuart initially toured with Lester Flatt, and then in Johnny Cash's road band before beginning work as a solo artist in the early 1980s. He is known for his combination of rockabilly, country rock, and bluegrass music influences, his frequent collaborations and cover songs, and his distinctive stage dress.
His greatest commercial success came in the first half of the 1990s on MCA Records Nashville. Stuart has recorded over 20 studio albums, and has charted over 30 times on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts. His highest chart entry is "The Whiskey Ain't Workin'", a duet with Travis Tritt. 
Stuart has won five Grammy Awards out of 16 nominations.  He is also a member of the Grand Ole Opry and Country Music Hall of Fame.


Early life[edit]
External audio Marty Stuart: Keeper Of Country Music's Cowboy Couture, interviewed by Terry Gross on Fresh Air, 51:08, October 1, 2014.[4]
John Marty Stuart was born in Philadelphia, Mississippi, on September 30, 1958.[1]
Stuart learned to play guitar and mandolin as a child, and by age 12, he had joined a gospel band called The Sullivans. While a member of this band, Stuart met mandolinist Roland White, a member of Lester Flatt's backing band; White invited Stuart to perform with Flatt at a concert in Delaware in 1972, which led to him becoming a regular member of that band. He continued to tour in this capacity until Flatt retired in 1978, and recorded an independent album called With a Little Help from My Friends that same year. After this, Stuart performed with Vassar Clements and Doc Watson before joining Johnny Cash's band in 1980.[3]
In 1982, he released a second album called Busy Bee Cafe on Sugar Hill Records. The album was composed of a jam session that included a number of country and bluegrass performers such as Cash, Watson, and Earl Scruggs. In 1985, Stuart accompanied Johnny Cash to Memphis and played on the Class of '55 album that also featured Carl Perkins, Roy Orbison, and Jerry Lee Lewis. At the end of the session, Perkins presented Stuart with his guitar.[5] Later that year, Stuart left Cash's band and landed a recording contract with Columbia Records.[3]

Recording career[edit]
Stuart released his self-titled debut album on Columbia in 1985. The album accounted for Stuart's first chart entry on Billboard Hot Country Songs charts with his first single release, "Arlene".[1] Three other singles charted from the album in 1986: "Honky Tonker" and "All Because of You", both written by Steve Forbert, and Stuart's own "Do You Really Want My Lovin'". However, these songs were less successful on the charts.[1] The success of "Arlene" helped Marty to receive a nomination by the Academy of Country Music Awards for Top New Male Vocalist, losing to Randy Travis. AllMusic writer Jim Worbois gave the album a mixed review, stating that it was "Not a great album, but made somewhat more interesting by some of the people appearing on the record and the inclusion of two Steve Forbert songs."[6] He recorded a second album for Columbia titled Let There Be Country, which charted two singles in 1988: the Merle Haggard composition "Mirrors Don't Lie" and "Matches".[1] Due to the underperformance of the singles, Columbia chose not to release the album, and Stuart exited the label to return to Mississippi.[3]

1989-91: Beginning of MCA Records tenure[edit]
After briefly rejoining the Sullivans, he returned to Nashville and signed with MCA Records in 1989.[3] That label issued the album Hillbilly Rock that year. Co-produced by Tony Brown and session guitarist Richard Bennett, the album charted four singles on Hot Country Songs. First was a cover of Cash's "Cry! Cry! Cry!", followed by "Don't Leave Her Lonely Too Long", which Stuart wrote with Kostas. While these were unsuccessful on the charts, the album's title track (written by Paul Kennerley) became Stuart's first top-ten country hit in 1990.[1] The album's final release was "Western Girls", which Stuart also co-wrote.[1] Hillbilly Rock was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in 1997 for shipments of 500,000 copies.[7]
His second MCA album, Tempted, followed in 1991. The album charted four singles on Hot Country Songs between 1991 and 1992: "Little Things", "Till I Found You", "Tempted", and "Burn Me Down", of which all except "Till I Found You" reached the top ten.[1] Bennett and Brown stayed on as producers, with the former also contributing alongside Stuart on both guitar and mandolin. Kennerley and Kostas contributed as both songwriters and backing vocalists; also performing backing vocals on some tracks were Billy Thomas and Ray Herndon, who were also recording on MCA in McBride & the Ride at the time.[8] Jana Pendragon of AllMusic gave the album four-and-a-half stars out of five, comparing it to Dwight Yoakam's Hillbilly Deluxe in style and saying, "Stuart kicks country-pop in its well-defined hindquarters[…]But Stuart is just as deadly when he slows things down and does a ballad."[9]
Also in 1991, Stuart co-wrote a song with Travis Tritt called "The Whiskey Ain't Workin'". Recorded on the latter's 1991 album It's All About to Change, this song was released in between "Tempted" and "Burn Me Down". It would go on to become Stuart's highest chart entry, reaching number two on Hot Country Songs in early 1992.[1] It also won Stuart his first Grammy Award, for Best Country Collaboration with Vocals that year.[10] This song's success also led to the two touring in 1992 as the No Hats Tour, a reference to the fact that unlike most contemporary country musicians, neither Tritt nor Stuart sported a cowboy hat.[11]

1992-95: End of MCA tenure[edit]
Stuart is a frequent collaborator of Travis Tritt, pictured here in 2014.
His next MCA album, This One's Gonna Hurt You, came out in 1992. The lead single "This One's Gonna Hurt You (For a Long, Long Time)", also a duet with Tritt, was a top-ten hit in 1992, but the followup singles "Now That's Country", "High on a Mountain Top", and "Hey Baby" were less successful.[1] Kennerley and Cash were once again among the contributing vocalists, while Ashley Cleveland and Pam Tillis both sang backing vocals on "High on a Mountain Top".[12] Johnny Cash provided duet vocals on "Doin' My Time", while the track "Me and Hank and Jumpin' Jack Flash" sampled voice recordings of Lester Flatt, Hank Williams, and Ernest Tubb.[13] Alanna Nash of Entertainment Weekly rated the album "A", finding the "stylistic mix" superior to preceding albums, noting influences of bluegrass, Southern rock, rockabilly, and blues in his delivery and song choices.[13] Also in 1992, Columbia issued Let There Be Country.[3] This One's Gonna Hurt You was certified gold by the RIAA in 1993.[7] Stuart won his second Grammy Award in 1993, in the category of Best Country Instrumental Performance, as one of several featured artists on Asleep at the Wheel's cover of "Red Wing" on their 1993 album Tribute to the Music of Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys.[10]
Love and Luck was his next album, released in 1994.[3] Only one single, "Kiss Me, I'm Gone", made top 40 from the project.[1] Stuart co-produced the album with Brown, while also contributing on guitar, mandolin, and songwriting. The album's opening title track featured Vince Gill, Ricky Skaggs, and Harry Stinson on backing vocals.[14] Also included were two covers: Billy Joe Shaver's "If I Give My Soul" and The Flying Burrito Brothers' "Wheels", as well as the mandolin instrumental "Marty Stuart Visits the Moon". Daniel Gioffre of AllMusic highlighted these three tracks in particular as being among the strongest on the album.[15] Nash rated the album "B", stating that "As a singer, Marty Stuart has all the zip of unbuttered toast, and as a writer, too many of his songs float aimlessly...Yet Stuart has genuine love for the early country greats and injects his own work with such impassioned strains of old hillbilly styles, that he charms in spite of his limitations."[16]
Following this album, MCA issued a compilation called The Marty Party Hit Pack in 1995, which contained singles from his previous MCA albums, as well as "The Whiskey Ain't Workin'", the previously-unreleased "The Likes of Me" and "If I Ain't Got You", and two cover songs previously found on multi-artist tribute albums released in 1994. These were a rendition of Elvis Presley's "Don't Be Cruel", featuring The Jordanaires and previously found on It's Now or Never: The Tribute to Elvis, and The Band's "The Weight", featuring The Staple Singers and previously found on Rhythm, Country and Blues. Both of these cover songs were produced by Don Was, while Don Cook handled production on the two new songs.[17] "The Likes of Me" was previously cut by Conway Twitty on his 1993 album Final Touches, on which Cook was also a producer.[18] Both of these new songs issued as singles in 1995, but neither entered the country music top 40.[1] Jay Orr of New Country magazine criticized "The Likes of Me" and the two cover songs, but otherwise found the album a "neat summation" of Stuart's music.[19] The Marty Party Hit Pack became Stuart's fourth and final gold album in 1998.[7]
Stuart released Honky Tonkin's What I Do Best in 1996, which produced two more minor chart entries in the title track (another duet with Tritt) and "You Can't Stop Love" that year.[1] The title track also won Stuart a Vocal Event of the Year award from the Country Music Association.[1] Nash rated the album "A−", finding an influence of The Beatles in "Thanks to You" and of Delta blues in "The Mississippi Mudcat and Sister Sheryl Crow".[20]

Career since the late 1990s[edit]
Stuart released another album in 1999 called The Pilgrim. It charted only one single that year with "Red, Red Wine and Cheatin' Songs".[3] A concept album based around a love triangle, the album featured vocal contributions from Pam Tillis, George Jones, and Emmylou Harris, as well as a poem recited by Johnny Cash. An uncredited review of the album in AllMusic was largely favorable, stating that "no one's idea of a commercial country album, one has to admire the sheer ambition of the project, as well as the guts it took MCA Records to release what amounts to a unique and deeply personal artistic vision."[21] After this album proved to be commercially unsuccessful, Stuart left MCA in 2000.[3]
His next album was 2003's Country Music, released on Columbia Records.[3] For this album, Stuart assembled a new backing band called Marty Stuart and His Fabulous Superlatives, consisting of Harry Stinson on drums, Kenny Vaughan on guitar, and Brian Glenn on bass guitar.[22] Included on the albums were covers of Porter Wagoner's "A Satisfied Mind", Carl Butler and Pearl's "Sundown in Nashville",[22] and Johnny Cash's "Walls of a Prison", as well as the Merle Haggard duet "Farmer's Blues".[23] Two singles from the album both charted: "If There Ain't, There Ought'a Be" and "Too Much Month (At the End of the Money)".[1] Thom Jurek of AllMusic wrote that the album "is relentless in both its attack and in the pleasure it provides to the listener. There are hot licks everywhere, with great songs, vocals, and a tapestry of moods, textures, and shades that serve to leave one impression: Stuart's radical experimentation of the last ten years has resulted in his finest moment thus far."[23]
In 2005, Stuart launched a custom record label, Superlatone Records, to issue overlooked Southern Gospel and Roots music recordings. Stuart released three critically acclaimed collections on Superlatone, Souls' Chapel, Badlands, and Live at the Ryman. In October 2005, Stuart released a concept album, Badlands: Ballads of the Lakota, which pays tribute to the Sioux culture in what is now South Dakota.  In 2007, Stuart produced Porter Wagoner's final album on the predominantly punk label Epitaph Records.

The Fabulous Superlatives[edit]
The Fabulous Superlatives in 2022: from left to right Stuart, Vaughan, Stinson, Scruggs
The Fabulous Superlatives, Marty Stuart's band since 2002, includes him on guitar and mandolin, Kenny Vaughan on guitar, and Harry Stinson on drums, and from 2002 until 2008, Brian Glenn on bass. From 2008 until 2015, Paul Martin was on bass.  In 2015, Chris Scruggs replaced Paul Martin on bass, and also played steel guitar.  Every member also sings.[24][25][26]

Musical style[edit]
In a 1992 article for Entertainment Weekly, Kate Meyers wrote that Stuart "considers himself more a stylist than a singer, meaning he gets by with a mix of approaches...rather than relying on a fantastic voice of his own", citing Johnny Cash, Bill Monroe, and Muddy Waters as his main musical influences.[27] Stuart's musical image in the 1990s was also defined by his distinct clothing and hairstyle. Meyers described him as having a "striking black mane, speckled with well-earned gray...[o]ften tied in a black or pink bandana headband", faded jeans from Levi Strauss & Co., a black T-shirt, cowboy boots, a concho belt, and a rhinestone-studded suit jacket designed by Nudie Cohn (sometimes termed the "Nudie suit").[27]

Equipment and memorabilia[edit]
Stuart is known for his extensive collection of country music memorabilia. Some of his collection was exhibited at the Tennessee State Museum in 2007 as "Sparkle & Twang: Marty Stuart's American Musical Odyssey." The  exhibit later appeared at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, Ohio, and at the Arkansas Statehouse Museum.  In early 2018, Stuart co-curated, along with the Grammy Museum, an exhibit at the Woody Guthrie Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma, entitled "Marty Stuart's Way Out West: A Country Music Odyssey". The exhibit highlighted the West Coast impact on country music, featuring items by artists including Johnny Cash, Merle Haggard, Buck Owens, and Stuart himself. Many of the items in the exhibit came from the private collection of Stuart, including the last portrait of Cash (taken by Stuart four days before Cash died).[28]

Marty Stuart, January 1993, with Clarence White's B-Bender guitar
Yvonne and Mavis Staples of the Staple Singers gave one of their father "Pops" Staples' guitars to Marty Stuart after Pop's death.[29] Mavis Staples explained, "My father was Marty's godfather. My sisters and I took him in as our brother. He's the only one that I've heard who -- when he's playing guitar, he sounds like Pop. He can play just like him."[30]
Stuart's guitars also include 'Clarence', the familiar two-tone Fender Telecaster, once owned by Clarence White. This instrument[31][32] is the original B-Bender guitar, built and designed by White and Gene Parsons around 1967, to allow the guitarist to manually raise the guitar's 'B' string one whole step to play in a style similar to a pedal steel guitar. Stuart bought this unique guitar in 1980 from White's widow,[33] and continued to play it in concert, as of 2019.

The Marty Stuart Show[edit]
Stuart is host of The Marty Stuart Show, which features traditional country music in the vein of The Porter Wagoner Show, Flatt & Scruggs, the Wilburn Brothers Show, and Hee Haw. The Marty Stuart Show began airing at 8:00 pm on November 1, 2008, on cable's RFD-TV.  Although no new episodes have been produced as of 2022, the network continues to air old episodes of the show under the name The Best of the Marty Stuart Show.[34]
Each episode features music by Stuart and his band the Fabulous Superlatives. Stuart hosts and produces the 30-minute episodes, with WSM disc jockey and Grand Ole Opry announcer Eddie Stubbs serving as the show's emcee.

Country Music Foundation[edit]
Stuart is a member of the board of the Country Music Foundation and is a past president. Stuart has also been a member of the Grand Ole Opry since 1992.[3] On August 12, 2020, Stuart was selected to be inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.[35]

Personal life[edit]
Stuart's first wife was Johnny Cash's daughter Cindy, to whom he was married from 1983 to 1988.[3]
Since July 8, 1997, Stuart has been married to country artist Connie Smith, whom he had admired since his childhood.[36] Stuart described encountering Smith many years earlier, after attending her concert: "I met Connie when I was 12 years old. She came to the Indian reservation in my hometown of Philadelphia, Mississippi, to work at a fair. She hasn't changed a bit. She looked great then and she looks great now."[37] Stuart said he told his mother then that he was going to marry Connie Smith. Smith explains how they have sustained their marriage : "Make the Lord the center ... and commit."[38]

Discography[edit]
Main article: Marty Stuart discography
Awards and nominations[edit]


Year

Association

Category

Nominated work

Result


1985

Academy of Country Music

Top New Male Vocalist

Marty Stuart

Nominated


1990

Country Music Association

Video of the Year

"Hillbilly Rock"

Nominated


1991

Academy of Country Music

Top Vocal Duet

Marty Stuart and Travis Tritt

Nominated


1992

Nominated


Grammy Awards

Best Country Collaboration with Vocals

"The Whiskey Ain't Workin'" (with Travis Tritt)

Won


Country Music Association Awards

Vocal Event of the Year

"The One's Gonna Hurt You" (with Travis Tritt)

Won


1994

Album of the Year

Asleep at the Wheel: Tribute to the Music of Bob Wills & the Texas Playboys

Nominated


Rhythm, Country and Blues

Nominated


Vocal Event of the Year

"The Devil Comes Back to Georgia" (with Charlie Daniels Band, Travis Tritt, Mark O'Connor and Johnny Cash)

Nominated


1996

Vocal Event of the Year

"Honky Tonkin's What I Do Best" (with Travis Tritt)

Nominated


Academy of Country Music

Top Vocal Duet

Marty Stuart and Travis Tritt

Nominated


1998

Vocal Event of the Year

Same Old Train (with various artists)

Won


1999

Grammy Awards

Best Country Collaboration with Vocals

Won


Country Music Association

Vocal Event of the Year

Nominated


2000

Golden Globe Awards

Best Original Score

All the Pretty Horses

Nominated


2002

Grammy Awards

Best Country Instrumental Performance

"Foggy Mountain Breakdown"

Won


2004

International Bluegrass Music Awards

Recorded Event of the Year[A]

Livin', Lovin', Losin': Songs of the Louvin Brothers

Won


2005

Americana Music Honors & Awards

Lifetime Achievement Award for Performance

Marty Stuart

Won


2008

International Bluegrass Music Awards

Recorded Event of the Year[B]

Everett Lilly & Everybody and Their Brother

Won


2011

Grammy Awards

Best Country Instrumental Performance

"Hummingbyrd"

Won


Best Country Collaboration with Vocals

"I Run To You" (with Connie Smith)

Nominated


2017

Americana Music Honors & Awards

Duo/Group of the Year

Marty Stuart and his Fabulous Superlatives

Won

^ A. shared with Joe Nichols, Rhonda Vincent, Emmylou Harris, Rodney Crowell, James Taylor, Alison Krauss, Vince Gill, Terri Clark, Merle Haggard, Carl Jackson, Ronnie Dunn, Rebecca Lynn Howard, Glen Campbell, Leslie Satcher, Kathy Louvin, Pamela Brown Hayes, Linda Ronstadt, Patty Loveless, Jon Randall, Harley Allen, Dierks Bentley, Larry Cordle, Jerry Salley, Dolly Parton, Sonya Isaacs, Del McCoury, Pam Tillis, Johnny Cash and The Jordanaires.
 ^ B. shared with Everett Lilly, Bea Lilly, Charles Lilly, Daniel Lilly, Mark Lilly, Rhonda Vincent, Billy Walker, Ronnie McCoury, Rob McCoury, David Ball, Charlie Cushman, Larry Stevenson, Joe Spivey, Eddie Stubbs, Jason Carter, Dickey Lee, Freddie Weller, Mike Bub, Rad Lewis, Andy May, Darrin Vincent, Marcia Campbell, Clay Rigdon, Eric Blankenship and Bill Wolfenbarger.

Bibliography[edit]
Himes, Geoffrey (1998). "Marty Stuart." In The Encyclopedia of Country Music. Paul Kingsbury, Editor. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 517.
References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Whitburn, Joel (2017). Hot Country Songs 1944 to 2017. Record Research, Inc. p. 351. ISBN 978-0-89820-229-8.

^ "Search results for 'Stuart, John Marty'". Broadcast Music Incorporated. Retrieved August 11, 2020.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Steve Huey. "Marty Stuart biography". AllMusic. Retrieved August 11, 2020.

^ "Marty Stuart: Keeper Of Country Music's Cowboy Couture". Fresh Air. WHYY (NPR). October 1, 2014. Retrieved September 15, 2019.

^ Dickerson, James L., Goin' Back to Memphis: A Century of Blues, Rock 'n' Roll and Glorious Soul, Schirmer Books, 1996, pg. 12

^ Jim Worbois. "Marty Stuart review". AllMusic. Retrieved August 12, 2020.

^ a b c "Search results for Marty Stuart". Recording Industry Association of America. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ Tempted (CD inssert). Marty Stuart. MCA Records. 1991. MCAD-10106.{{cite AV media notes}}:  CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)

^ Pendragon, Jana. "Tempted review". Allmusic. Retrieved August 12, 2020.

^ a b "Search results for Marty Stuart". Grammy.com. Retrieved August 11, 2020.

^ Ron Givens (November 29, 1991). "The No Hats Tour -- Travis Tritt and Marty Stuart refuse to wear cowboy headgear". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ Thom Jurek. "This One's Gonna Hurt You". AllMusic. Retrieved August 12, 2020.

^ a b Alanna Nash (July 24, 1992). "This One's Gonna Hurt You". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ Love and Luck (CD booklet). Marty Stuart. MCA Records. 1994. 10880.{{cite AV media notes}}:  CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)

^ "Love and Luck". AllMusic. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ Alanna Nash (March 18, 1994). "Love and Luck review". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ The Marty Party Hit Pack (CD booklet). Marty Stuart. MCA Nashville. 1995. MCAD-11204.{{cite AV media notes}}:  CS1 maint: others in cite AV media (notes) (link)

^ "Final Touches". Allmusic. Retrieved January 27, 2016.

^ Orr, Jay (April 1995). "Album reviews: The Marty Party Hit Pack". New Country. 2 (5): 66. ISSN 1074-536X.

^ Alanna Nash (July 12, 1996). "Honky Tonkin's What I Do Best". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ "The Pilgrim". AllMusic. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ a b "Reviews". Detroit Free Press. July 6, 2003. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ a b "Country Music". AllMusic. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ Tunis, Walter (June 21, 2012). "Country guitarist Kenny Vaughan steps out on his own". Lexington Herald Reader. Retrieved April 27, 2017.

^ "Marty Stuart Fan Page: The Band". Mattioli, Sherry. Retrieved December 17, 2017.

^ Jon Weisberger (August 31, 2005). "Marty Stuart - The party may come to an end, but the road goes on forever". No Depression. Archived from the original on September 30, 2017. Retrieved October 13, 2017.

^ a b Kate Meyers (September 18, 1992). "On the road with Marty Stuart". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved August 14, 2020.

^ World, Jimmie Tramel Tulsa (January 24, 2018). "Marty Stuart launches 'Way Out West' exhibit at Woody Guthrie Center".

^ "Marty Stuart Rediscovers Gospel in 'Souls' Chapel'". NPR.org. Retrieved May 23, 2013.

^ Dauphin, Chuck (October 12, 2017). "Mavis Staples Talks Las Vegas Shooting & Reasserting Herself As a Voice for Change". Billboard. Retrieved October 12, 2017.

^ Russell, Rusty. ""Clarence" The Granddaddy of Bender Guitars". Marty Stuart Fan Page. Retrieved January 31, 2016.

^ Kuhn, Thomas Eric. "Telecaster - "Going electric"". The Country Boys. Retrieved January 31, 2016.

^ di Perna, Alan. "How Marty Stuart Is Keeping Country Music's Rich Tradition Alive". Guitar Aficionado. NewBay Media, LLC. Retrieved January 31, 2016.

^ Cary O’Dell (May 1, 2017). "Now Playing at the Packard Campus Theater (May 4-6, 2017) | Now See Hear!". blogs.loc.gov. Archived from the original on February 4, 2020. Retrieved March 14, 2020.

^ Paulson, Matthew Leimkuehler and Dave. "Hank Williams Jr., Marty Stuart, Dean Dillon to enter the Country Music Hall of Fame". The Tennessean. Retrieved May 7, 2021.

^ Campbell, Courtney. "Marty Stuart and Connie Smith: A Love Story Years in the Making". Wide Open Country. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

^ "Spirits Of Marty Stuart And Connie Smith Finally Unite (first appeared in a printing of Country Weekly in 1997)". Marty Stuart.com. Retrieved August 16, 2010.

^ Gallagher, Pat (July 8, 2010). "Connie Smith and Marty Stuart Offer Marriage Tips". TheBoot.com. The Boot. Retrieved August 16, 2010.


External links[edit]
Marty Stuart Official Website
Marty Stuart Fan Page website
Marty Stuart at IMDb
Superlatone Records
Marty Stuart Interview at NAMM Oral History Collection (2017)


Awards


Preceded byChris Hillman

 AMA Lifetime Achievement Award for Performing 2005

Succeeded byAlejandro Escovedo


vteMarty StuartStudio albums
Busy Bee Cafe
Marty Stuart
Let There Be Country
Hillbilly Rock
Tempted
This One's Gonna Hurt You
Once Upon a Time
Love and Luck
Honky Tonkin's What I Do Best
The Pilgrim
Country Music
Souls' Chapel
Badlands: Ballads of the Lakota
Live at the Ryman
Cool Country Favorites
Ghost Train: The Studio B Sessions
Nashville, Volume 1: Tear the Woodpile Down
Saturday Night / Sunday Morning
Way Out West
Compilation albums
The Marty Party Hit Pack
Compadres: An Anthology of Duets
Notable singles
"Arlene"
"Cry! Cry! Cry!"
"Hillbilly Rock"
"Western Girls"
"Little Things"
"Till I Found You"
"Tempted"
"Burn Me Down"
"This One's Gonna Hurt You (For a Long, Long Time)" (with Travis Tritt)
"Now That's Country"
"Kiss Me, I'm Gone"
"Honky Tonkin's What I Do Best" (with Travis Tritt)
"You Can't Stop Love"
Guest singles
"The Whiskey Ain't Workin'" (with Travis Tritt)
Related articles
Discography
Connie Smith
"Honky Tonk Crowd"
"I'll Love You Forever (If I Want To)"

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

vteCountry Music Hall of Fame 2020s
Dean Dillon (2020)
Marty Stuart (2020)
Hank Williams Jr. (2020)
Eddie Bayers (2021)
Ray Charles (2021)
Pete Drake (2021)
The Judds (2021)
Joe Galante (2022)
Jerry Lee Lewis (2022)
Keith Whitley (2022)
Bob McDill (2023)
Patty Loveless (2023)
Tanya Tucker  (2023)
John Anderson (2024)
James Burton (2024)
Toby Keith (2024)

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicNorwayArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy Awards



