American comedian and country singer (1912–1996)
Minnie PearlPearl in 1965BornSarah Ophelia Colley(1912-10-25)October 25, 1912Centerville, Tennessee, U.S.DiedMarch 4, 1996(1996-03-04) (aged 83)Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.Resting placeMount Hope Cemetery, Franklin, Tennessee, U.S.Alma materWard-Belmont CollegeOccupationCountry comedienneYears active1939–1991TelevisionHee-HawSpouse
Henry R. Cannon ​(m. 1947)​
Sarah Ophelia Colley Cannon (October 25, 1912 – March 4, 1996), known professionally as her stage character Minnie Pearl, was an American comedian who appeared at the Grand Ole Opry for more than 50 years (1940–1991) and on the television show Hee Haw from 1969 to 1991.[1][2]


Biography[edit]
Early life[edit]
Sarah Colley was born in Centerville in Hickman County, Tennessee, 50 miles (80 km) southwest of Nashville. She was the youngest of five daughters born to a prosperous sawmill owner and timber dealer in Centerville.[3]
She graduated from Ward-Belmont College (now Belmont University), at the time Nashville's most prestigious school for young ladies, where she majored in theater studies and dance. She taught dance for the first few years after graduating.[4]

Professional career[edit]
Her first professional theatrical work was with the Wayne P. Sewell Production Company, a touring theater company based in Atlanta. She produced and directed plays and musicals for local organizations in small towns throughout the Southeast.[3][4]
Part of her work involved making brief appearances at civic organizations to promote the group's shows, and during this time she developed her Minnie Pearl routine.[4] While producing an amateur musical comedy in Baileyton, Alabama she met a mountain woman whose style and speech became the basis for "Cousin Minnie Pearl".[3] Her first stage performance as Minnie Pearl was in 1939 in Aiken, South Carolina.[3] Her character's now-famous trademark hat was purchased downtown at Surasky Bros. Department store before the show. The following year, executives from Nashville radio station WSM saw her perform at a bankers' convention in Centerville and gave her an opportunity to appear on the Grand Ole Opry on November 30, 1940.[3][4] The success of her debut on the show began an association with the Grand Ole Opry that continued for more than 50 years.[5]
Pearl's comedy was gentle satire of rural Southern culture, often called "hillbilly" culture. She lived in the fictional town of Grinders Switch. Pearl always dressed in frilly "down home" dresses and wore a hat with a price tag hanging from it, displaying the $1.98 price. Her signature greeting to her audience was an elongated "Howdy! I'm just so proud to be here!" delivered in a hearty holler.[6] After she became an established star, her greeting became a call-and-response with audiences everywhere. Pearl's often self-deprecating humor involved her unsuccessful attempts to attract "a feller's" attention and, in later years, her age. She also spun stories involving her comical "ne'er-do-well" relatives, notably "Uncle Nabob", his wife "Aunt Ambrosia", "Lucifer Hucklehead", "Miss Lizzie Tinkum", "Doc Payne", and, of course, her "Brother", who was simultaneously both slow-witted and wise. She usually closed her monologues with the exit line, "I love you so much it hurts!" She also sang comic novelty songs and often danced with Grandpa Jones.
In 1956, she made a paid appearance – $3,000, plus expenses – at the kickoff event of the first Alabama gubernatorial candidacy of segregationist George Wallace. She also appeared at an event kicking off his 1962 candidacy for governor.

Hat on display at the National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C.
Pearl drew much of her comic material from her hometown of Centerville, which she called Grinders Switch. Grinders Switch was a community just outside Centerville that consisted of little more than a railroad switch. Those who knew her recognized that the characters were largely based on actual Centerville residents. So much traffic resulted from fans and tourists looking for Grinders Switch that the Hickman County Highway Department eventually changed the designation on the "Grinders Switch" road sign to "Hickman Springs Road".
Cannon portrayed Minnie Pearl for many years on television, first on ABC's Ozark Jubilee in the late 1950s; then on the long-running television series Hee Haw, both on CBS and the subsequent syndicated version. She made several appearances on NBC's The Ford Show, Starring Tennessee Ernie Ford. She also appeared as a celebrity panelist on game shows such as Match Game in 1977 and 1978, and Hollywood Squares in 1980. Her last regular performances on national television were on Ralph Emery's Nashville Now country-music talk show on the former The Nashville Network (TNN) cable channel. With Emery, she performed in a weekly feature "Let Minnie Steal Your Joke" in the Minnie Pearl character, and read jokes submitted by viewers, with prizes for the best jokes.[3]
Cannon made a cameo appearance in the film Coal Miner's Daughter, appearing at the Opry as Minnie Pearl.

Family life[edit]
A life-sized statue of Minnie Pearl sits on a pew alongside a statue of Roy Acuff in the lobby of Ryman Auditorium.
On February 23, 1947, Colley married Henry R. Cannon, who had been an Army Air Corps fighter pilot during World War II and was then a partner in an air charter service. After the wedding, Cannon set up his own air charter service for country music performers and took over management of the Minnie Pearl character.[3][5] His clients in the charter service included Eddy Arnold, Colonel Tom Parker, Hank Williams, Carl Smith, Webb Pierce, and Elvis Presley.[3] The couple had no children.[5] In 1969, they purchased a large estate home in Nashville next door to the Tennessee Governor's Mansion.[7] Cannon attended Brentwood Methodist Church, just to the south of Nashville, where she also donated the pipe organ.[8]

Chicken restaurants[edit]
See also: List of fast-food chicken restaurants
In the late 1960s, Nashville entrepreneur John Jay Hooker persuaded Cannon and gospel singer Mahalia Jackson to lend their names to a chain of fried chicken restaurants established to compete with Kentucky Fried Chicken. After initially reporting good results and enjoying a public stock worth $64 million, the venture collapsed amid allegations of accounting irregularities and stock price manipulation. The ensuing investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission cleared both Cannon and Jackson of involvement in financial wrongdoings, but both were embarrassed by the negative publicity.

Cancer research[edit]
After battling breast cancer through aggressive treatments, including a double mastectomy and radiation therapy, she became a spokeswoman for the medical center in Nashville where she had been treated. She took on this role as herself, Sarah Ophelia Cannon, not Minnie Pearl, although a nonprofit group, the Minnie Pearl Cancer Foundation, was founded in her memory to help fund cancer research. The center where she was treated was later named the Sarah Cannon Cancer Center, and has been expanded to at least twenty other hospitals in Middle Tennessee, southern Kentucky, Richmond, Virginia, Kansas City, Missouri, Gainesville, Florida, and the UK. Her name has also been lent to the affiliated Sarah Cannon Research Institute.[9][10]

Final years[edit]
Cannon suffered a debilitating stroke in June 1991,[3] bringing her performing career to an end. After the stroke, she resided in a Nashville nursing home, where she received frequent visits from music industry figures, including Chely Wright, Vince Gill, and Amy Grant. Her death on March 4, 1996, at the age of 83 was attributed to complications from another stroke. She is buried at Mount Hope Cemetery in Franklin, Tennessee.

Legacy and influence[edit]
She was an important influence on younger female country music singers and rural humorists such as Jerry Clower, Jeff Foxworthy, Bill Engvall, Carl Hurley, David L Cook, Chonda Pierce, Ron White, and Larry the Cable Guy. In 1992, she was awarded the National Medal of Arts. In 2002, she was ranked as number 14 on CMT's 40 Greatest Women in Country Music list.[citation needed]
According to Barney Hoskyns, the Band's 1975 song "Ophelia" was based on Pearl.[11] Pearl is also mentioned in the lyrics of the 1988 song "Punk Rock Girl" by the Dead Milkmen.[12][13]
In 1988, Pearl received the American Academy of Achievement's Golden Plate Award, presented by Johnny Cash, alongside fellow awardee Roy Acuff, at an awards ceremony in Nashville.[14]
She was friends with performers outside the country genre, including Elvis Presley, Dean Martin (she appeared on an episode of The Dean Martin Show), and Paul Reubens (Pee-wee Herman).[15] In 1992, Reubens made what would be his last appearance as Pee-wee Herman for 15 years at a Minnie Pearl tribute show.[16]
Bronze statues of Minnie Pearl and Roy Acuff are displayed in the lobby of the Ryman Auditorium. Chely Wright and Dean Sams (of Lonestar) posed for the statues.[citation needed]
A museum dedicated to Minnie Pearl was situated just outside the Grand Ole Opry House at Opryland USA (next to another museum dedicated to Roy Acuff), but the museum closed along with the theme park in 1997. Many of its artifacts were moved to the adjacent Grand Ole Opry Museum.

Books[edit]


Title

Publisher/Studio

Copyright[17]


Minnie Pearl's Diary

Greenberg

1953


Minnie Pearl's Christmas at Grinder's Switch (With Tennessee Ernie Ford)

Abingdon Press

1963


Minnie Pearl Cooks

Aurora Publishers

1970


Minnie Pearl: An Autobiography (with Joan Dew)

Simon & Schuster

1980


Christmas at Grinder's Switch (with Roy Acuff)

Abingdon Press

1985


Best Jokes Minnie Pearl Ever Told (Plus a Few She Overheard!) (compiled by Kevin Kenworthy)

Rutledge Hill Press

1999

Recordings[edit]
Albums[edit]


Title

Record Label

Copyright[17]


Howdy!

Sunset

1960


America's Beloved Minnie Pearl

Starday

1965


The Country Music Story

Starday

1966


Lookin' Fer a Feller

Starday

1967


Grandpa Jones and Minnie Pearl

RCA Camden

1973

Selected guest appearances on albums[edit]
This list includes guest appearances on other stars' albums or appearances on "various artists" compilation albums.



Title

Record Label

Copyright[17]


Country Music Caravan

RCA Victor

1954


Hall of Fame (Vol. 9), (contributor)

Starday

c. 1969


Thunder on the Road

Starday

c. 1970


Stars of the Grand Ole Opry

RCA

1974


Live at the Grand Ole Opry (With Hank Williams)

MGM

1976


New Harvest...First Gathering (Dolly Parton album; appears on the track "Applejack")

RCA

1977


Backstage at the Grand Ole Opry

RCA

1980


Surely You Joust (Ray Stevens album; appears on the track "Southern Air")

MCA

1986


Out Among the Stars (Posthumous Johnny Cash album; appears on the track "If I Told You Who It Was", recorded in the 1980s)

Columbia Records

2014

Singles[edit]
Minnie Pearl released a number of single records for RCA Victor during the 1950s, including a few duets with Grandpa Jones. During this period, she also made guest appearances on records by Chet Atkins and Ernest Tubb. In the 1960s, she moved to Starday Records. At age 54, she recorded a top-10 hit for Starday, "Giddyup Go – Answer", a response to Red Sovine's classic "Giddyup Go".[18] She later recorded with Sovine and Buddy Starcher in other single releases.
Pearl was back on RCA in 1974 when Archie Campbell and she released a parody record of Loretta Lynn and Conway Twitty's hit "As Soon As I Hang Up the Phone" which received airplay, but did not chart. In 1977, she appeared with a number of other Opry members on Dolly Parton's New Harvest...First Gathering album, singing on the song "Applejack". In 1986, she was a featured guest vocalist, along with Jerry Clower, on the Ray Stevens comedy single entitled "Southern Air". It charted in the top 70 of Billboard.



Year

Title

US Country


1966

"Giddyup Go – Answer"

10

Notes[edit]


^ "Movies". The New York Times. Retrieved January 9, 2020.

^ O'Connor, John J. (October 26, 1992). "Review/Television; A Howdy to Minnie Pearl, Price Tags and All". The New York Times. Archived from the original on March 26, 2009. Retrieved December 9, 2018.

^ a b c d e f g h i Minnie Pearl Inductee Biography, Country Music Hall of Fame website. Retrieved February 14, 2009.

^ a b c d James Manheim (All Music Guide), Minnie Pearl Biography, retrieved from the Country Music Television website, February 14, 2009.

^ a b c Edward T. James; Janet Wilson James; Paul S. Boyer (1971). Notable American Women: A Biographical Dictionary. Harvard University Press. p. 506. ISBN 978-0-674-01488-6.

^ "Minnie Pearl Biography, Songs, & Albums". AllMusic.

^ "MusicCityPearl.com". Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved 2007-01-17.

^ Bordsen, John (24 December 2000). "Nashville Country Here's Where The Music Stars Hang Their Hats". Dec. 24, 2000. Retrieved May 23, 2014.

^ "Creating a More Confident Cancer Journey | PearlPoint". Archived from the original on 2015-09-16.

^ "Expert Cancer Care Navigated Close to Home". Sarahcannon.com. Retrieved January 9, 2020.

^ Hoskyns, B. (2006). Across the Great Divide: The Band and America. Hal Leonard. ASIN B001C4QHK0.

^ Huey, Steve. "Punk Rock Girl by Dead Milkmen | Song Review". AllMusic. Retrieved August 22, 2022.

^ Macnow, Glen; Graham, Big Daddy (2019). The Great Book of Philadelphia Sports Lists (Completely Revised and Updated ed.). Running Press Adult. ISBN 978-0762496082.

^ "Golden Plate Awardees of the American Academy of Achievement". achievement.org. American Academy of Achievement.

^ "Paul Reubens interview". Archived from the original on October 5, 2008.

^ Lloyd, Robert (July 10, 2006). "Pee-wee's Back in the Limelight". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on October 17, 2020. Retrieved May 16, 2009.

^ a b c "LC Catalog - Legacy Catalog Retired". Catalog.loc.gov. Retrieved January 9, 2020.

^ Minnie Pearl Biography, CMT.com. Retrieved June 2, 2011.


References[edit]
Kingsbury, Paul (1998). "Minnie Pearl". In The Encyclopedia of Country Music. Paul Kingsbury, Editor. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 409–10.
Pearl, Minnie with Joan Dew (1980). Minnie Pearl: An Autobiography. New York: Simon & Schuster.
Sarah Cannon Cancer Center
Sarah Cannon Research Institute
The Minnie Pearl Cancer Foundation
Lifetime Honors – National Medal of Arts.
External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Minnie Pearl.


Biography portal
Minnie Pearl at the Country Music Hall of Fame
Minnie Pearl at IMDb
Awards for Minnie Pearl
vteCountry Music Hall of Fame 1970s
The Carter Family (1970)
Bill Monroe (1970)
Art Satherley (1971)
Jimmie Davis (1972)
Chet Atkins (1973)
Patsy Cline (1973)
Owen Bradley (1974)
Pee Wee King (1974)
Minnie Pearl (1975)
Paul Cohen (1976)
Kitty Wells (1976)
Merle Travis (1977)
Grandpa Jones (1978)
Hubert Long (1979)
Hank Snow (1979)

vteNational Medal of Arts recipients (1990s)1990
George Abbott
Hume Cronyn
Jessica Tandy
Merce Cunningham
Jasper Johns
Jacob Lawrence
Riley "B.B." King
David Lloyd Kreeger
Harris & Carroll Sterling Masterson
Ian McHarg
Beverly Sills
Southeastern Bell Corporation
1991
Maurice Abravanel
Roy Acuff
Pietro Belluschi
John Carter Brown III
Charles "Honi" Coles
John Crosby
Richard Diebenkorn
R. Philip Hanes
Kitty Carlisle Hart
Pearl Primus
Isaac Stern
Texaco
1992
Marilyn Horne
James Earl Jones
Allan Houser
Minnie Pearl
Robert Saudek
Earl Scruggs
Robert Shaw
Billy Taylor
Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown
Robert Wise
AT&T
Lila Wallace
1993
Walter and Leonore Annenberg
Cabell "Cab" Calloway
Ray Charles
Bess Lomax Hawes
Stanley Kunitz
Robert Merrill
Arthur Miller
Robert Rauschenberg
Lloyd Richards
William Styron
Paul Taylor
Billy Wilder
1994
Harry Belafonte
Dave Brubeck
Celia Cruz
Dorothy DeLay
Julie Harris
Erick Hawkins
Gene Kelly
Pete Seeger
Catherine Filene Shouse
Wayne Thiebaud
Richard Wilbur
Young Audiences
1995
Licia Albanese
Gwendolyn Brooks
B. Gerald and Iris Cantor
Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee
David Diamond
James Ingo Freed
Bob Hope
Roy Lichtenstein
Arthur Mitchell
Bill Monroe
Urban Gateways
1996
Edward Albee
Sarah Caldwell
Harry Callahan
Zelda Fichandler
Eduardo "Lalo" Guerrero
Lionel Hampton
Bella Lewitzky
Vera List
Robert Redford
Maurice Sendak
Stephen Sondheim
Boys Choir of Harlem
1997
Louise Bourgeois
Betty Carter
Agnes Gund
Daniel Urban Kiley
Angela Lansbury
James Levine
Tito Puente
Jason Robards
Edward Villella
Doc Watson
MacDowell Colony
1998
Jacques d'Amboise
Antoine "Fats" Domino
Ramblin' Jack Elliott
Frank Gehry
Barbara Handman
Agnes Martin
Gregory Peck
Roberta Peters
Philip Roth
Sara Lee Corporation
Steppenwolf Theatre Company
Gwen Verdon
1999
Irene Diamond
Aretha Franklin
Michael Graves
Odetta
Juilliard School
Norman Lear
Rosetta LeNoire
Harvey Lichtenstein
Lydia Mendoza
George Segal
Maria Tallchief

Complete list
1980s
1990s
2000s
2010s

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainzDiscography of American Historical RecordingsOtherSNAC



