American singer-songwriter
Moon MullicanBackground informationBirth nameAubrey Wilson MullicanBorn(1909-03-29)March 29, 1909Polk County, Texas, United StatesDiedJanuary 1, 1967(1967-01-01) (aged 57)Beaumont, TexasGenresCountry and westernwestern swingboogie-woogiebluesOccupation(s)Singer, pianist, songwriterYears active1926–1966LabelsKingCoralMusical artist
Aubrey Wilson Mullican (March 29, 1909 – January 1, 1967),[1] known professionally as Moon Mullican and nicknamed "King of the Hillbilly Piano Players", was an American country and western singer, songwriter, and pianist. He was associated with the hillbilly boogie style which influenced rockabilly. Jerry Lee Lewis cited him as a major influence on his own singing and piano playing.[2]
Mullican once stated, "We gotta play music that'll make them goddamn beer bottles bounce on the table".[3]


Early life[edit]
Mullican was born to Oscar Luther Mullican (1876–1961) and his first wife, Virginia Jordan Mullican (1880–1915), near Corrigan, Polk County, Texas, United States.[1]  They were a farming family of Scottish, Irish and Eastern European ancestry. His Scots-Irish immigrant ancestor, James Mullikin, was born in Scotland, arriving in Maryland, United States in the 1630s from Northern Ireland. His paternal grandfather was Pvt. Wilson G. Mullican, who served in the 6th Mississippi Infantry Regiment, Confederate States Army, at the Battle of Shiloh. Mullican's parents, stepmother, and grandparents are all buried in Stryker Cemetery, Polk County, Texas.

Beginnings in music[edit]
As a child Mullican began playing the organ, which his religious father had purchased in order to better sing hymns at church.[1] However, Moon made friends with Joe Jones, a black sharecropper on the family farm, who introduced him to the country blues.[1] Moon's parents did not always approve, and he was torn between playing religious and secular music. After making his mark as a local piano player, Mullican left home at age 16, going to Houston, where he performed and sang in local clubs.[1]
By the 1930s, Mullican had acquired his nickname "Moon". Although published sources suggest it is short for "moonshine" or possibly from his all-night performances;[1] his family says it was because he loved to play "Shoot the Moon", a variation of the dominoes game "42".  It is also highly likely the widely popular syndicated comic strip Moon Mullins, which debuted in 1923, played a role in the similar nickname and alliteration sticking to Mullican.

Early career[edit]
His earliest influences were popular blues artists of the day such as Bessie Smith, Blind Lemon Jefferson and Leroy Carr, together with country musicians including Jimmie Rodgers, and Bob Wills.[4] In 1936, he covered Cab Calloway's "Georgia Pine" and also sang his own compositions "Ain't You Kinda Sorry" and "Swing Baby Swing" for Leon Selph's Western swing band, The Blue Ridge Playboys.[1]  He played and recorded with Cliff Bruner's Texas Wanderers, the Sunshine Boys, and Jimmie Davis.[1] By the end of the 1930s, he had become a popular vocalist with a warm, deep, vocal delivery. Mullican frequently met up with another pianist, Black Boy Shine, when performing around Houston. Combining nicknames, for a short time in the 1930s, they performed as a duo called "Moonshine".[5]
In the early 1940s, he returned to the Texas Wanderers as lead singer and pianist, sang on the hits "Truck Driver's Blues" and "I'll Keep On Loving You".[1] However, after leaving the band in 1942, he became a session musician playing on the songs of Floyd Tillman, Ernest Tubb, and Red Foley.

The Showboys[edit]
In 1945, he put together his own band, The Showboys, who quickly became one of the most popular outfits in the Texas-Louisiana area with a mix of country music, Western swing, Cajun music, and Mullican's wild piano playing and singing. Although their style was highly eclectic and included country ballads, some of their music clearly foreshadowed what would later be called rock and roll. In September 1946, Mullican cut 16 recordings as band leader, for King Records in Cincinnati.[1] His first release, "The Lonesome Hearted Blues" b/w "It's a Sin to Love You Like I Do" sold quite well, but did not chart. His second release, "New Jole Blon" in December 1946 (later recorded by Doug Kershaw), reached number 2 on the Country and Western chart,[1] sold one million copies[6] and was the beginning of a long string of hits.[1] He became a member of the Grand Ole Opry in 1951.[7][8]
Mullican was one of the highest-selling artists on King Records. Though not a major chart success, he was popular in the southeastern United States with records such as "The Leaves Mustn't Fall", "Hey Shah", "You Don't Have to Be a Baby to Cry", "Nine Tenths of the Tennessee River", and "I Was Sorta Wonderin'".
In the mid-1950s, many artists, such as Lefty Frizzell and George Jones experimented with rock and roll as its popularity began to gain ground on traditional country-and-western in the mid-1950s. Seeking some of that success, Mullican recorded four rock sides with Boyd Bennett and His Rockets, including "Seven Nights to Rock".[1] However, both singles failed to chart. Before he signed to Coral in 1958, he had three other hits with King, including "Hey Shah".

Later career[edit]
In 1958, Mullican was signed by country music producer Owen Bradley to Decca Records' subsidiary label Coral Records, and recorded more rock songs including "Moon's Rock" and "Sweet Rockin' Music". Devastated by the failure of his rock sides, Owen Bradley convinced Mullican to record his original songs in the burgeoning new more lush style of country music, the Nashville sound. However, Bradley was frustrated with Mullican; he reportedly said himself, "There was nothing I could do with him." Mullican, whose style was largely in traditional honky tonk, found it difficult to make such a large adjustment to his style and was dropped from Coral in 1959.
In the early 1960s, Mullican was a largely forgotten figure nationally, but based himself in Texas and carried on performing, recording then for the Starday and Spar labels. The decade saw him record country songs such as "I'll Pour the Wine" and "Love Don't Have a Guarantee", together with less notable novelties including "I Ain't No Beatle, But I Wanna Hold Your Hand".[1] One of his last records was  "Love That Might Have Been". 

Death[edit]
In spite of having a heart condition Mullican continued to perform regularly. On New Year's Eve 1966 he suffered a heart attack in Beaumont, Texas, and died early in the morning on January 1, 1967, aged 57.[1] He is buried in Magnolia Cemetery, Beaumont, Texas, the epitaph on his tombstone reading "I'll Sail My Ship Alone", the name of one of his many hits.
His wife Eunice (d. 1973) survived him; the couple was childless. 

Influence[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Moon Mullican" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (February 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
During the late 1940s and early 1950s, Mullican influenced many other country artists. He had defined a style of country balladeering not hinted at in his 1930s work. This style of music influenced Jim Reeves (a band member for a while), Hank Williams (who named Mullican as a favorite artist), Hank Snow, Bill Haley, Elvis Presley, and especially Jerry Lee Lewis, who covered many of Mullican's songs. It was in the realm of hillbilly boogie, however, that Mullican had his greatest influence.[citation needed] Many of his songs, such as "Pipeliners Blues", "Hey! Mister Cotton-Picker" and "Cherokee Boogie" (his biggest hit, in 1951) foreshadowed a style adopted with widespread popularity by Haley and later rock and rollers. Mullican also influenced many others, including the Western swing band Asleep at the Wheel, which recorded his song "Cherokee Boogie" on their 1973 album Comin' Right At Ya, with several recording tribute CDs to mark Mullican's 100th birthday in 2009
Mullican is also believed to have co-written  "Jambalaya," a song made famous by Hank Williams that could not be credited to Mullican because of his contract with King Records.[9] Mullican's recording of the song was released in July 1952, the same month as Williams' version, but differs significantly in having a different order of verses and extra rhyming couplets.

Legacy[edit]
In 1976, Mullican was posthumously inducted into the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame. There have been many posthumous compilations of his music, on various labels including Ace and Bear Family.[9]

Discography[edit]


Year

Single

Chart positions


US Country

US


1947

"New Pretty Blonde (Jole Blon)"

2

21


"Jole Blon's Sister"

4




1948

"Sweeter Than the Flowers"

3

30


"I Left My Heart in Texas"

12




"Foggy River"

13




1949

"What Have I Done That Made You Go Away?"

15




1950

"I'll Sail My Ship Alone"

1

17


"You Don't Have to Be a Baby to Cry "

8




"Goodnight Irene"

5




"Mona Lisa"

4




1951

"I Was Sorta Wonderin'"

10




"Cherokee Boogie (Eh-Oh-Aleena)"

7




1952

"Jambalaya"






1953

"Pipeliner Blues"






1956

"Hey Shah"






1961

"Ragged but Right"

15




CD compilations[edit]
Moon's Rock (Bear Family, 1992)
Moonshine Jamboree (Ace, 1993)
The EP Collection (See For Miles, 2000)
Showboy Special: The Early King Sides (1946-1947) (Westside, 2000)
Moon's Tunes: The Chronological King Recordings, Vol. 2 (1947-1950) (Westside, 2002)
I'll Sail My Ship Alone (Proper, 2002) 2CD
Seven Nights To Rock (More King Classics 1950-1956) (Ace, 2004)
I Done It! The Uptempo Moon Mullican 1949-1958 (Jasmine, 2019)
References[edit]


^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Colin Larkin, ed. (1993). The Guinness Who's Who of Country Music (First ed.). Guinness Publishing. pp. 278/9. ISBN 0-85112-726-6.

^ "Moon Mullican | Biography & History". AllMusic. Retrieved 2021-03-21.

^ Du Noyer, Paul (2003). The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Music (1st ed.). Fulham, London: Flame Tree Publishing. p. 199. ISBN 1-904041-96-5.

^ "MOON MULLICAN". Archived from the original on October 21, 2007.

^ "Black Boy Shine" (PDF). Gato-docs.its.txstate.edu. Retrieved 2020-09-30.

^ Murrells, Joseph (1978). The Book of Golden Discs (2nd ed.). London: Barrie and Jenkins Ltd. p. 40. ISBN 0-214-20512-6.

^ "About | Grand Ole Opry". 30 March 2019. Archived from the original on 2019-03-30. Retrieved August 8, 2021.

^ "Country Calendar". Bill Morrison. 2008. Retrieved July 10, 2012.

^ a b "Moon Mullican | Biography & History". AllMusic. Retrieved August 8, 2021.


External links[edit]
This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Allmusic
Biography at Handbook of Texas Online
Moon Mullican at Rockabilly Hall Archived 2021-05-07 at the Wayback Machine
Nashville Songwriters' Foundation
A discography and audio links
Moon Mullican 78 RPM - Discography - USA - 78 RPM World
Moon Mullican Discography - USA - 45cat
Moon Mullican at Find a Grave
Moon Mullican recordings at the Discography of American Historical Recordings.
vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataLatviaArtistsMusicBrainz2Discography of American Historical Recordings



