American singer-songwriter


Rosie FloresRosie Flores at the 67th Annual Peabody Awards in 2008Background informationBirth nameRosalie Flores[1]Born (1950-09-10) September 10, 1950 (age 74)OriginSan Antonio, Texas, U.S.GenresAlternative countrycountry rockcowpunkrockabillyOccupationsSingerguitaristsongwriterInstrumentsVocalsguitarYears active1968–presentLabelsRepriseHighToneRounderWatermelonEminentDurango RoseEmergentBloodshot RecordsWebsiterosieflores.comMusical artist
Rosie Flores (born Rosalie Flores; September 10, 1950)[2] is an American singer, songwriter and musician. She currently resides in Austin, Texas, where August 31 was declared Rosie Flores Day by the Austin City Council in 2006.[3]


Biography[edit]
Rosie Flores was born in San Antonio, Texas, United States,[2] where she lived until the age of twelve, when her family moved to San Diego.[2] In interviews, Flores has recalled that growing up, she loved to watch musical television shows like The Dick Clark Show and Hit Parade. She began singing as a young child, and her brother, Roger, taught her to play rhythm guitar when she was a teenager.[4]
Flores formed her first band, Penelope's Children, while still in high school in California.[5] In the 1970s, Flores played the San Diego nightclub circuit and was the namesake of the alt country/cowpunk band Rosie and the Screamers.[2] After leaving the Screamers, she joined a cowpunk all-female band called Screamin' Sirens in the 1980s.[6] The latter band produced a series of 7-inch singles and tracks for compilation albums before releasing an album in 1987, Voodoo.
Flores's self-titled solo debut came out on Warner Bros./Reprise in 1987.[2] The single, "Crying Over You", put her on the Billboard chart for the first time.[7] Since then, Flores has recorded ten additional solo albums.
Flores has toured widely, appearing in the United States, Europe, Asia, and Australia, and also performing frequently in Austin, continuing into 2019.[8] In 1995, she joined Wanda Jackson on a coast-to-coast North American tour,[9] and she toured as a member of Asleep at the Wheel in 1997.[10] She has also traveled with a concert tribute she created to honor Janis Martin, a program which she performed at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum among other places.[11] In 2012, she was part of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's tribute to Chuck Berry.[12] Her media appearances include Austin City Limits and Late Night with Conan O'Brien, and she had a cameo role in the 1993 film The Thing Called Love.
In addition to her work as a performer and songwriter, Flores has helped to revive the careers of female rockabilly musicians from previous generations and to create new interest in their music. Her album Rockabilly Filly, released on Hightone Records in 1995, included vocals from early rock and roll musicians Janis Martin and Wanda Jackson.[13] In 2007, Flores brought Janis Martin to a recording studio in Blanco, Texas, to record what would be both Martin's first solo album in thirty years as well as her last before her death of cancer.[14] After the project was turned down by a number of record labels, Flores raised more than $16,000 on Kickstarter to release the album, which was titled Janis Martin: The Blanco Sessions. Flores is credited as a producer.[15]
Flores's current (as of 2013–2018) guitar of choice is her James Trussart SteeltopCaster.  She uses Fender amplifiers, and has also played Fender Telecasters, Gretsch electrics, Gibson Les Pauls, and various acoustic guitars.[16]

Musical style[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.  (January 2023)
According to AllMusic, Flores's "talent for alternative country and rockabilly made her a favorite with both audiences and critics."[2] Nashville Scene defined Flores as a "New Wave country-rocker".[17] San Diego Tribune described Flores as a "dynamo of rockabilly and cow-punk" who is "equally gifted as a singer, songwriter, guitarist and band leader [and] shines whether performing country, rock, swing or any of the other earthy American styles she has made her own."[18]

Personal life[edit]
Flores has revealed that, under pressure from her manager, she had an abortion in 1986, shortly after signing with Warner Bros. She later regretted the decision.[5] She has never been married, and has said that her lifestyle, which involves frequent touring, makes it difficult to maintain long-term relationships.[16]

Discography[edit]
Main article: Rosie Flores discography
Awards and nominations[edit]


Year
Association
Category
Nominated Work
Result


1986
Academy of Country Music
Top New Female Vocalist
Herself
Nominated


2007
Peabody Awards
N/A
Whole Lotta Shakin'
Won


2014
Ameripolitan Music Awards
Honky Tonk Female
Herself
Won


2014
Ameripolitan Music Awards
Rockabilly Female
Herself
Won

References[edit]


^ "BANDERA HIGHWAY". ASCAP. American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers. Retrieved March 13, 2023.

^ a b c d e f Manheim, James. "Rosie Flores Biography". AllMusic. Retrieved January 5, 2022.

^ "Search Results – AustinTexas.gov – The Official Website of the City of Austin". Austintexas.gov. Retrieved February 28, 2019.

^ Hudson, Kathleen (2013). Women in Texas Music: Stories and Songs. University of Texas Press. pp. 69–73. ISBN 978-0292752863.

^ a b Davis, John T. "Rosie Flores Still Rockin'". Austin Woman Magazine. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ Gary Indiana, "Screamin' Sirens," Flipside, whole no. 49 (Summer 1986), pp. 18–19.

^ Arnold, Thomas K (September 16, 1987). "TWO SINGERS HOPE ALL IS 'ROSIE' ON THE COMEBACK TRAIL : Flores Comes Full Circle, Returns to Traditional Country". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ "Rosie Flores: Tour". Rosie Flores. 2019. Retrieved January 6, 2019.

^ "Rosie Flores Official Web Site". Archived from the original on September 9, 2007. Retrieved August 6, 2021.

^ "Calhoun Times and Gordon County News – Google News Archive Search". Retrieved February 28, 2019.

^ "Rosie Flores: A Tribute to Janis Martin". Rockhall.org. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ Yarborough, Chuck (October 26, 2012). "Rock Hall's Chuck Berry American Music Masters tribute: Range of performers paying homage to '50s pioneer". Cleveland Plain Dealer. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ "Rockabilly Filly Overview". AllMusic. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ "Janis Martin, 'The Female Elvis,' Returns". NPR. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ Flores, Rosie. "JANIS MARTIN " The Female Elvis", Final Recording Sessions". Kickstarter.com. Retrieved March 7, 2015.

^ a b Charupakorn, Joe (January 9, 2013). "Interview: Rosie Flores – Rockabilly Road Doggie". Premier Guitar. Retrieved January 6, 2019.

^ Hurt, Edd (October 3, 2022). "Chris Hillman, Rosie Flores and Many More Celebrate the Story of Country-Rock". Nashville Scene. Retrieved January 5, 2022.

^ Varga, George (July 2, 2017). "Rosie Flores, San Diego-bred dynamo of rockabilly and cow-punk, returns". San Diego Tribune. Retrieved January 5, 2022.


External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Rosie Flores.

Official website
Rosie Flores discography at Discogs
Rosie Flores at the Rockabilly Hall of Fame
L.A. Record: Rosie Flores interview
Rosie Fores in the Austin Chronicle
vteAsleep at the Wheel
Ray Benson
David Sanger
Katie Shore
Dennis Ludiker
Connor Forsyth
Josh Hoag
Flavio Pasquetto
Joey Colarusso
Lucky Oceans
LeRoy Preston
Danny Levin
Gene Dobkin
Chris O'Connell
Emily Paxton
Floyd Domino
Tony Garnier
Richard Casanova
Scott Hennige
Ed Vizard
Link Davis Jr.
Bill Mabry
Pat "Taco" Ryan
Johnny Nicholas
Fran Christina
Spencer Starnes
Dean DeMerritt
Maryann Price
Bobby Black
Brenda Burns
Falkner Evans
Paul Anastasio
Billy Estes
Dan Tyack
Michael Francis
Wally Murphy
Jann Browne
Steve Schwelling
Tom Anastasio
Roy McCrory
Richard Hormachea
Billy Cochran
Tim Alexander
Larry Franklin
Mike Grammar
Junior Brown
John Ely
David Dawson
Jon Mitchell
Ricky Turpin
David Earl Miller
Cindy Cashdollar
Tommy Beavers
Barbara Lamb
Monty Gaylord
Jason Roberts
Chris Booher
Rosie Flores
John Michael Whitby
Jim Murphy
Haydn Vitera
Eddie Rivers
Elizabeth McQueen
Walt Roberts
Dan Walton
Jay Reynolds
Emily Gimble
Chloe Feoranzo
Studio albums
Comin' Right at Ya
Asleep at the Wheel
Texas Gold
Wheelin' and Dealin'
The Wheel
Collision Course
Framed
Pasture Prime
10
Western Standard Time
Keepin' Me Up Nights
The Wheel Keeps on Rollin'
Merry Texas Christmas, Y'all
The Very Best of Asleep at the Wheel
Hang Up My Spurs
Asleep at the Wheel Remembers the Alamo
Reinventing the Wheel
Willie and the Wheel (with Willie Nelson)
New Routes
Half a Hundred Years
Tribute albums
Tribute to the Music of Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys
Ride with Bob: A Tribute to Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys
Still the King: Celebrating the Music of Bob Wills and His Texas Playboys
Live albums
Served Live
Greatest Hits: Live & Kickin'
Back to the Future Now: Live at Arizona Charlie's, Las Vegas
Live at Billy Bob's Texas
Live from Austin, TX
Compilations
Swing Time
Route 66
The Swingin' Best of Asleep at the Wheel
Extended plays
Better Times
Singles
"Choo Choo Ch'Boogie"
"The Letter That Johnny Walker Read"
"Route 66 "
"The House of Blue Lights "
"Walk On By"
"Hot Rod Lincoln"
"Corrine, Corrina"
"Lay Down Sally"
Other songs
"Boot Scootin' Boogie"
"Cherokee Maiden"
"Roly Poly"
Related articles
Band members
Discography

Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesSpainArtistsMusicBrainz



