American singer-songwriter
For the Scottish mountaineer and physiologist, see Thomas Graham Brown.
T. Graham BrownBrown in 2015Background informationBirth nameAnthony Graham BrownBorn (1954-10-30) October 30, 1954 (age 69)[1]Arabi, Georgia, U.S.GenresCountryOccupationSingerInstrumentVocalsYears active1985–presentLabelsCapitol, Intersound, Madacy, Compendia, Aspirion, MCM-World Media, RED DistributionWebsitewww.tgrahambrown.comMusical artist
Anthony Graham Brown  (born October 30, 1954), known professionally as T. Graham Brown, is an American country music singer. Active since 1973, Brown has recorded a total of thirteen studio albums, and has charted more than twenty singles on the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart. Three of these singles — "Hell and High Water" and "Don't Go to Strangers" from 1986, and "Darlene" from 1988 — reached Number One, and eight more made Top Ten.
In 2024, he achieved one of country music's crowning achievements when he was invited to become a member of the Grand Ole Opry. Prior to his induction, Brown had made over 300 appearances as a guest performer.


Biography[edit]
Anthony Graham Brown was born in 1954 in Arabi, Georgia.[2] He first performed in a duo, Dirk & Tony (1973–75) before founding two more bands, "Reo Diamond" (1975) and "T. Graham Brown's Rack of Spam" (1979). He married his wife Sheila in 1980; they have a son, Acme Geronimo[citation needed] Brown (born 1989).[3]

Musical career[edit]
Brown moved to Nashville in 1982 and found work singing advertising jingles for companies such as McDonald's, Disneyland, Budweiser, Coors, Stroh's, Almond Joy, Coca-Cola, Sears, Dodge Trucks, Ford, Hardee's, Kentucky Fried Chicken, The Nashville Network, B.C.Powders, Dr Pepper, Mountain Dew, 7-Up, and Harrah's.[4] He was also the singing narrator in the Taco Bell "Run For the Border" television spots. Brown also found work as a songwriter for E.M.I. Publishing before signing to Capitol Records in 1984. He was with Universal Music Group Nashville for 13 years. His first release for the label, "Drowning in Memories", peaked at No.39 on the Billboard country chart. The title song of his debut album "I Tell It Like It Used To Be" went to No.7, followed by "I Wish That I Could Hurt That Way Again" to No.4, giving way to a pair of number ones: "Hell and High Water" and "Don't Go To Strangers".[1]
Brown's first release for the label, "Drowning in Memories", peaked at No. 39 and was never included on an album. Next came the No. 7 "I Tell It Like It Used to Be", the first single from his 1986 album of the same name. Counting its title track, this album accounted for four singles: the No. 3 "I Wish That I Could Hurt That Way Again" and two straight Number Ones in "Hell and High Water" and "Don't Go to Strangers".[4]
Brown's second album for the label, Brilliant Conversationalist, followed a year later. Although none of its singles went to Number One, it accounted for three more Top Ten hits in its title track, followed by "She Couldn't Love Me Anymore" and "Last Resort".[5] A third album, 1988's Come as You Were, produced his third and final Number One in "Darlene".[4] Then came the No. 7 title track and No. 30 "Never Say Never". In early 1990, he sang guest vocals on the multi-artist charity single "Tomorrow's World", as well as Tanya Tucker's single "Don't Go Out", from her album Tennessee Woman.
1990 also saw the release of his next album, Bumper to Bumper. This album's lead-off single "If You Could Only See Me Now" went Top Ten with a No. 6 peak, but the other singles — the No. 18 "Moonshadow Road" and No. 53 "I'm Sending One Up for You" — did not fare as well, with the latter being his first single to land outside the Top 40. That same year, he also released an unsuccessful greatest-hits package. His next album, You Can't Take It with You, only accounted for the No. 31 "With This Ring" before he exited Capitol in 1991.
Brown did not record another album until 1998's Wine into Water on the Intersound label. This album produced four more singles for him, although the No. 44 title track was the highest-charting single from it. The subject matter of the lyrics of the song surrounded Brown's then ongoing fight against alcoholism.[4] He then released two more independent albums: The Next Right Thing in 2003 and The Present in 2006.
Brown joined Broadway icon Carol Channing for a duet of "Don't Sit Under The Apple Tree" on her 2012 album True To The Red, White, and Blue. He also recorded a duet of "You Are So Beautiful" with Lulu Roman (of Hee Haw fame) for her 2013 album At Last.[6] In 2012, Brown appeared on a Country/Gospel album[7]
In 2014, Brown again collaborated with producer Mark Carman to produce the Grammy-nominated album, Forever Changed, featuring guest appearances by industry giants Leon Russell, The Oak Ridge Boys, Steve Cropper, Jeff and Sheri Easter, The Booth Brothers, Three Bridges, Jimmy Fortune, Sonya Isaacs, and Jason Crabb.[8] In July 2014 the first single from the album was released on the MCM World Media Label. The song, "He'll Take Care of You", was written by well known, award-winning songwriters Dan Penn, Gary Nicholson, and Donnie Fritts.

Discography[edit]
Main article: T. Graham Brown discography
Studio albums
I Tell It Like It Used to Be (1986)
Brilliant Conversationalist (1987)
Come as You Were (1988)
Bumper to Bumper (1990)
You Can't Take It with You (1991)
From a Stronger Place (1996)
Wine into Water (1998)
The Next Right Thing (2003)
The Present (2006)
Forever Changed (2015)
Christmas with T. Graham Brown (2015)
Bare Bones (2020)
Awards and nominations[edit]


Year

Organization

Award

Nominee/Work

Result


1986

Academy of Country Music Awards

Top New Male Vocalist

T. Graham Brown

Nominated


1987

Country Music Association Awards

Horizon Award

T. Graham Brown

Nominated


1990

Country Music Association Awards

Vocal Event of the Year

"Don't Go Out" with Tanya Tucker

Nominated


1991

Academy of Country Music Awards

Top Vocal Duo of the Year

Tanya Tucker and T. Graham Brown

Nominated


TNN/Music City News Awards

Vocal Collaboration of the Year

T. Graham Brown and Tanya Tucker

Nominated


1993

TNN/Music City News Awards

Vocal Collaboration of the Year

George Jones and Friends[A]

Nominated


Country Music Association Awards

Vocal Event of the Year

"I Don't Need Your Rockin' Chair" with George Jones and Friends[A]

Won

^[A] Other artists featured on the song "I Don't Need Your Rockin' Chair" include: Vince Gill, Garth Brooks, Travis Tritt, Joe Diffie, Alan Jackson, Pam Tillis, Mark Chesnutt, Patty Loveless and Clint Black

References[edit]


^ a b Whitburn, Joel (2008). Hot Country Songs 1944 to 2008. Record Research, Inc. p. 66. ISBN 978-0-89820-177-2.

^ Huey, Steve. "T. Graham Brown biography". The Albany Journal. Retrieved 2007-11-30.

^ "T. Graham Brown". CMT.com. Archived from the original on June 7, 2016. Retrieved 2018-02-19.

^ a b c d Colin Larkin, ed. (2003). The Virgin Encyclopedia of Eighties Music (Third ed.). Virgin Books. p. 87. ISBN 1-85227-969-9.

^ Huey, Steve. "allmusic (((T. Graham Brown biography)))". AllMusic. Retrieved 2007-11-30.

^ Record Label (December 7, 2012). "Homesick Entertainment Projects". Homesick Entertainment. Retrieved December 7, 2012.

^ "Working On A Building : Credits". Allmusic. Retrieved November 2, 2014.

^ "Awards Nominations & Winners". Grammy.com. April 30, 2017. Retrieved October 31, 2019.


External links[edit]
Official website 
T. Graham Brown at IMDb
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesArtistsMusicBrainzGrammy Awards
vteT. Graham BrownDiscographyStudio albums
I Tell It Like It Used to Be
Brilliant Conversationalist
Come as You Were
Bumper to Bumper
Wine into Water
Forever Changed
Notable singles
"I Tell It Like It Used to Be"
"I Wish That I Could Hurt That Way Again"
"Hell and High Water"
"Don't Go to Strangers"
"Brilliant Conversationalist"
"She Couldn't Love Me Anymore"
"The Last Resort"
"Darlene"
"Come as You Were"
"Never Say Never"
"If You Could Only See Me Now"
"Moonshadow Road"
Guest singles
"Don't Go Out"

vteMembers of the Grand Ole OpryCurrent members
Trace Adkins
Lauren Alaina
Bill Anderson
Kelsea Ballerini
Bobby Bare
Mandy Barnett
Dierks Bentley
Clint Black
Garth Brooks
T. Graham Brown
Henry Cho
Terri Clark
Luke Combs
John Conlee
Dailey & Vincent
Diamond Rio
Sara Evans
Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers
Crystal Gayle
Vince Gill
Emmylou Harris
The Isaacs
Alan Jackson
Chris Janson
Jamey Johnson
Alison Krauss
Lady A
Little Big Town
Patty Loveless
Dustin Lynch
Barbara Mandrell
Martina McBride
Ashley McBryde
Del McCoury
Charlie McCoy
Scotty McCreery
Reba McEntire
Ronnie Milsap
Eddie Montgomery
Craig Morgan
Lorrie Morgan
Gary Mule Deer
The Oak Ridge Boys
Old Crow Medicine Show
Brad Paisley
Jon Pardi
Dolly Parton
Carly Pearce
Stu Phillips
Jeanne Pruett
Rascal Flatts
Riders in the Sky
Darius Rucker
Don Schlitz
Jeannie Seely
Blake Shelton
Ricky Van Shelton
Ricky Skaggs
Connie Smith
Mike Snider
Marty Stuart
Pam Tillis
Randy Travis
Travis Tritt
Josh Turner
Carrie Underwood
Keith Urban
Rhonda Vincent
Steve Wariner
Gene Watson
The Whites
Mark Wills
Lainey Wilson
Trisha Yearwood
Chris Young
Former members
Roy Acuff
David "Stringbean" Akeman
Jack Anglin
Eddy Arnold
Ernest Ashworth
Chet Atkins
DeFord Bailey
Bashful Brother Oswald
Humphrey Bate
Binkley Brothers' Dixie Clodhoppers
Margie Bowes
Rod Brasfield
Jim Ed Brown
The Browns
Carl Butler and Pearl
Archie Campbell
Bill Carlisle
Martha Carson
The Carter Sisters
Maybelle Carter
Johnny Cash
June Carter Cash
Roy Clark
Zeke Clements
Patsy Cline
Jerry Clower
Stoney Cooper
Wilma Lee Cooper
Cowboy Copas
Charlie Daniels
Skeeter Davis
The Delmore Brothers
The DeZurik Sisters
Little Jimmy Dickens
Joe Diffie
Danny Dill
Jimmy Driftwood
Roy Drusky
The Duke of Paducah
Holly Dunn
The Everly Brothers
Lester Flatt
Red Foley
Curly Fox
Lefty Frizzell
Troy Gentry
Don Gibson
Billy Grammer
Jack Greene
The Gully Jumpers
Theron Hale
Tom T. Hall
George Hamilton IV
Sid Harkreader
Hawkshaw Hawkins
George D. Hay
Hoot Hester
Goldie Hill
David Houston
Jan Howard
Ferlin Husky
Stonewall Jackson
Sonny James
Norma Jean
Jim & Jesse
Johnnie & Jack
George Jones
Grandpa Jones
The Jordanaires
Doug Kershaw
Hal Ketchum
Bradley Kincaid
Pee Wee King
Hank Locklin
Lonzo and Oscar
Bobby Lord
The Louvin Brothers
Charlie Louvin
Ira Louvin
Bob Luman
Loretta Lynn
Uncle Dave Macon
Rose Maddox
Mel McDaniel
Jesse McReynolds
McGee Brothers
Bill Monroe
George Morgan
Moon Mullican
Willie Nelson
Jimmy C. Newman
Bobby Osborne
Sonny Osborne
Johnny Paycheck
Minnie Pearl
Webb Pierce
Ray Pillow
Ray Price
Charley Pride
Del Reeves
Jim Reeves
Leon Rhodes
Tex Ritter
Marty Robbins
Johnny Russell
Rusty and Doug
Earl Scruggs
Jean Shepard
Mississippi Slim
Carl Smith
Fiddlin' Arthur Smith
Hank Snow
Red Sovine
Ralph Stanley
Texas Ruby
B. J. Thomas
Uncle Jimmy Thompson
Mel Tillis
Tompall & the Glaser Brothers
Ernest Tubb
Justin Tubb
Leroy Van Dyke
Porter Wagoner
Billy Walker
Charlie Walker
Kitty Wells
Dottie West
Keith Whitley†
Slim Whitman
The Wilburn Brothers
Don Williams
Hank Williams
Boxcar Willie
The Willis Brothers
Chubby Wise
Del Wood
Marion Worth
Johnnie Wright
Tammy Wynette
Faron Young

†Honorary former member; was scheduled to be invited, but died before the invitation was extended
Pending members
Steven Curtis Chapman




